<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Ultima Thule</title>
      <author><name reg="Reynolds, Dallas McCord">Dallas McCord Reynolds</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>October 25, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">30334</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-10-25">October 25, 2009</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Greg Weeks, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Ultima Thule</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">by</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Dallas McCord Reynolds</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Illustrated by John Schoenherr.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Analog Science Fact &amp; Fiction</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">March 1961</p>
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<p>
[Transcriber's Note: This text was produced from Analog Science Fact &amp; Fiction March
1961. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed.]
</p>

<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>

<div>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/front.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
At least he'd got far
enough to wind up with
a personal interview.
It's one thing doing up
an application and seeing
it go onto an endless tape and be
fed into the maw of a machine and
then to receive, in a matter of moments,
a neatly printed rejection. It's
another thing to receive an appointment
to be interviewed by a placement
officer in the Commissariat of
Interplanetary Affairs, Department
of Personnel. Ronny Bronston was
under no illusions. Nine out of ten
men of his age annually made the
same application. Almost all were
annually rejected. Statistically speaking
practically nobody ever got an
interplanetary position. But he'd
made step one along the path of a
lifetime ambition.
</p>

<p>
He stood at easy attention immediately
inside the door. At the desk at
the far side of the room the placement
officer was going through a
sheaf of papers. He looked up and
said, <q>Ronald Bronston? Sit down.
You'd like an interplanetary assignment,
eh? So would I.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny took the chair. For a moment
he tried to appear alert, earnest,
ambitious but not <emph>too</emph> ambitious,
fearless, devoted to the cause, and indispensable.
For a moment. Then he
gave it up and looked like Ronny
Bronston.
</p>

<p>
The other looked up and took him
in. The personnel official saw a man
of averages. In the late twenties. Average
height, weight and breadth.
Pleasant of face in an average sort of
way, but not handsome. Less than
sharp in dress, hair inclined to be on
the undisciplined side. Brown of
hair, dark of eye. In a crowd, inconspicuous.
In short, Ronny Bronston.
</p>

<p>
The personnel officer grunted. He
pushed a button, said something into
his order box. A card slid into the
slot and he took it out and stared
gloomily at it.
</p>

<p>
<q>What're your politics?</q> he said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Politics?</q> Ronny Bronston said.
<q>I haven't any politics. My father and
grandfather before me have been citizens
of United Planets. There hasn't
been any politics in our family for
three generations.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Family?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>None.</q>
</p>

<p>
The other grunted and marked the
card. <q>Racial prejudices?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I beg your pardon?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Do you have any racial prejudices?
Any at all.</q>
</p>

<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>

<p>
<q>No.</q>
</p>

<p>
The personnel officer said, <q>Most
people answer that way at first, these
days, but some don't at second. For
instance, suppose you had to have a
blood transfusion. Would you have
any objection to it being blood donated
by, say, a Negro, a Chinese, or,
say, a Jew?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny ticked it off on his fingers.
<q>One of my greatgrandfathers was a
French <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>colon</foreign> who married a Moroccan
girl. The Moors are a blend of
Berber, Arab, Jew and Negro. Another
of my greatgrandfathers was a
Hawaiian. They're largely a blend
of Polynesians, Japanese, Chinese and
Caucasians especially Portuguese.
Another of my greatgrandfathers was
Irish, English and Scotch. He married
a girl who was half Latvian, half
Russian.</q> Ronny wound it up. <q>Believe
me, if I had a blood transfusion
from just anybody at all, the blood
would feel right at home.</q>
</p>

<p>
The interviewer snorted, even as
he marked the card. <q>That accounts
for three greatgrandfathers,</q> he said
lightly. <q>You seem to have made a
study of your family tree. What was
the other one?</q>
</p>

<p>
Rocky said expressionlessly, <q>A
Texan.</q>
</p>

<p>
The secretary shrugged and looked
at the card again. <q>Religion?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Reformed Agnostic,</q> Ronny said.
This one was possibly where he ran
into a brick wall. Many of the planets
had strong religious beliefs of one
sort or another. Some of them had
state religions and you either belonged
or else.
</p>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<p>
<q>Is there any such church?</q> the
personnel officer frowned.
</p>

<p>
<q>No. I'm a one-man member. I'm
of the opinion that if there are any
greater-powers-that-be They're keeping
the fact from us. And if that's the
way They want it, it's Their business.
If and when They want to contact
me&mdash;one of Their puppets dangling
from a string&mdash;then I suppose They'll
do it. Meanwhile, I'll wait.</q>
</p>

<p>
The other said interestedly, <q>You
think that if there is a Higher Power
and if It ever wants to get in touch
with you, It will?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Um-m-m. In Its own good time.
Sort of a <hi rend='italic'>don't call Me</hi>, thing, <hi rend='italic'>I'll call
you</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p>
The personnel officer said, <q>There
have been a few revealed religions,
you know.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So they said, so they said. None of
them have made much sense to me. If
a Super-Power wanted to contact
man, it seems unlikely to me that it'd
be all wrapped up in a lot of complicated
gobbledegook. It would all be
very clear indeed.</q>
</p>

<p>
The personnel officer sighed. He
marked the card, stuck it back into
the slot in his order box and it disappeared.
</p>

<p>
He looked up at Ronny Bronston.
<q>All right, that's all.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny came to his feet. <q>Well,
what happened?</q>
</p>

<p>
The other grinned at him sourly.
<q>Darned if I know,</q> he said. <q>By the
time you get to the outer office, you'll
probably find out.</q> He scratched the
end of his nose and said, <q>I sometimes
wonder what I'm doing here.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny thanked him, told him
good-by, and left.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In the outer office a girl looked up
from a card she'd just pulled from
her own order box. <q>Ronald Bronston?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right.</q>
</p>

<p>
She handed the card to him. <q>You're
to go to the office of Ross Metaxa
in the Octagon, Commissariat of Interplanetary
Affairs, Department of
Justice, Bureau of Investigation, Section
G.</q>
</p>

<p>
In a lifetime spent in first preparing
for United Planets employment
and then in working for the organization,
Ronny Bronston had never been
in the Octagon Building. He'd seen
photographs, Tri-Di broadcasts and
he'd heard several thousand jokes on
various levels from pun to obscenity
about getting around in the building,
but he'd never been there. For that
matter, he'd never been in Greater
Washington before, other than a long
ago tourist trip. Population Statistics,
his department, had its main offices
in New Copenhagen.
</p>

<p>
His card was evidently all that he
needed for entry.
</p>

<p>
At the sixth gate he dismissed his
car and let it shoot back into the
traffic mess. He went up to one of
the guard-guides and presented the
card.
</p>

<p>
The guide inspected it. <q>Section G
of the Bureau of Investigation,</q> he
muttered. <q>Every day, something
new. I never heard of it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It's probably some outfit in charge
of cleaning the heads on space liners.</q>
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
Ronny said unhappily. He'd
never heard of it either.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, it's no problem,</q> the guard-guide
said. He summoned a three-wheel,
fed the co-ordinates into it
from Ronny's card, handed the card
back and flipped an easy salute.
<q>You'll soon know.</q>
</p>

<p>
The scooter slid into the Octagon's
hall traffic and proceeded up one corridor,
down another, twice taking to
ascending ramps. Ronny had read
somewhere the total miles of corridors
in the Octagon. He hadn't believed
the figures at the time. Now
he believed them. He must have traversed
several miles before they got
to the Department of Justice alone.
It was another quarter mile to the
Bureau of Investigation.
</p>

<p>
The scooter eventually came to a
halt, waited long enough for Ronny
to dismount and then hurried back
into the traffic.
</p>

<p>
He entered the office. A neatly uniformed
reception girl with a harassed
and cynical eye looked up from
her desk. <q>Ronald Bronston?</q> she
said.
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Where've you been?</q> She had a
snappy cuteness. <q>The commissioner
has been awaiting you. Go through
that door and to your left.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny went through that door and
to the left. There was another door,
inconspicuously lettered <hi rend='italic'>Ross Metaxa,
Commissioner, Section G</hi>. Ronny
knocked and the door opened.
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa was going through a
wad of papers. He looked up; a man
in the middle years, sour of expression,
moist of eye as though he either
drank too much or slept too little.
</p>

<p>
<q>Sit down,</q> he said. <q>You're Ronald
Bronston, eh? What do they call
you, Ronny? It says here you've got a
sense of humor. That's one of the
first requirements in this lunatic department.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny sat down and tried to form
some opinions of the other by his appearance.
He was reminded of nothing
so much as the stereotype city
editor you saw in the historical romance
Tri-Ds. All that was needed
was for Metaxa to start banging on
buttons and yelling something about
tearing down the front page, whatever
that meant.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa said, <q>It also says you have
some queer hobbies. Judo, small
weapons target shooting, mountain
climbing&mdash;</q> He looked up from the
reports. <q>Why does anybody climb
mountains?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Nobody's ever figured
out.</q> That didn't seem to be enough,
especially since Ross Metaxa was
staring at him, so he added, <q>Possibly
we devotees keep doing it in hopes
that someday somebody'll find out.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa said sourly, <q>Not <emph>too</emph>
much humor, please. You don't act as
though getting this position means
much to you.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said slowly, <q>I figured out
some time ago that every young man
on Earth yearns for a job that will
send him shuttling from one planet
to another. To achieve it they study,
they sweat, they make all out efforts
to meet and suck up to anybody they
think might help. Finally, when and
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
if they get an interview for one of
the few openings, they spruce up in
their best clothes, put on their best
party manners, present themselves as
the sincere, high I.Q., ambitious
young men that they are&mdash;and then
flunk their chance. I decided I might
as well be what I am.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa looked at him. <q>O.K.,</q>
he said finally. <q>We'll give you a try.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said blankly, <q>You mean
I've got the job?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I'll be damned.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Probably,</q> Metaxa said. He
yawned. <q>Do you know what Section
G handles?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well no, but as for me, just so I
get off Earth and see some of the
galaxy.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Metaxa had been sitting with his
heels on his desk. Now he put them
down and reached a hand into a
drawer to emerge with a brown bottle
and two glasses. <q>Do you drink?</q> he
said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Even during working hours?</q>
Metaxa scowled.
</p>

<p>
<q>When occasion calls.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good,</q> Metaxa said. He poured
two drinks. <q>You'll get your fill of
seeing the galaxy,</q> he said. <q>Not that
there's much to see. Man can settle
only Earth-type planets and after
you've seen a couple of hundred
you've seen them all.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny sipped at his drink, then
blinked reproachfully down into the
glass.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa said, <q>Good, eh? A kind of
tequila they make on Deneb Eight.
Bunch of Mexicans settled there.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What,</q> said Ronny hoarsely, <q>do
they make it out of?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Lord only knows,</q> Metaxa said.
<q>To get back to Section G. We're
Interplanetary Security. In short, Department
Cloak and Dagger. Would
you be willing to die for the United
Planets, Bronston?</q>
</p>

<p>
That curve had come too fast.
Ronny blinked again. <q>Only in emergency,</q>
he said. <q>Who'd want to kill
me?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa poured another drink.
<q>Many of the people you'll be working
with,</q> he said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, <emph>why</emph>? What will I be doing?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You'll be representing United
Planets,</q> Metaxa explained. <q>Representing
United Planets in cases where
the local situation is such that the
folks you're working among will be
teed off at the organization.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, why are they members if
they don't like the UP?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's a good question,</q> Metaxa
said. He yawned. <q>I guess I'll have to
go into my speech.</q> He finished his
drink. <q>Now, shut up till I give you
some background. You're probably
full of a lot of nonsense you picked
up in school.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny shut up. He'd expected
more of an air of dedication in the
Octagon and in such ethereal departments
as that of Interplanetary Justice,
however, he was in now and not
adverse to picking up some sophistication
beyond the ken of the Earth-bound
employees of UP.
</p>

<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>

<p>
The other's voice took on a far
away, albeit bored tone. <q>It seems
that most of the times man gets a
really big idea, he goes off half
cocked. Just one example. Remember
when the ancient Hellenes exploded
into the Mediterranean? A score of
different City-States began sending
out colonies, which in turn sprouted
colonies of their own. Take Syracuse,
on Sicily. Hardly was she established
than, bingo, she sent off colonists to
Southern Italy, and they in turn to
Southern France, Corsica, the Balearics.
Greeks were exploding all over
the place, largely without adequate
plans, without rhyme or reason. Take
Alexander. Roamed off all the way to
India, founding cities and colonies of
Greeks all along the way.</q>
</p>

<p>
The older man shifted in his chair.
<q rend='pre'>You wonder what I'm getting at, eh?
Well, much the same thing is happening
in man's explosion into space,
now that he has the ability to leave
the solar system behind. Dashing off
half cocked, in all directions, he's
flowing out over this section of the
galaxy without plan, without rhyme
or reason. I take that last back, he
has reasons all right&mdash;some of the
screwiest. Religious reasons, racial
reasons, idealistic reasons, political
reasons, altruistic reasons and mercenary
reasons.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Inadequate ships, manned by
small numbers of inadequate people,
setting out to find their own planets,
to establish themselves on one of the
numberless uninhabited worlds that
offer themselves to colonization and
exploitation.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny cleared his throat. <q>Well,
isn't that a good thing, sir?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa looked at him and
grunted. <q>What difference does it
make if it's good or not? It's happening.
We're spreading our race out
over tens of hundreds of new worlds
in the most haphazard fashion. As a
result, we of United Planets now
have a chaotic mishmash on our
hands. How we manage to keep as
many planets in the organization as
we do, sometimes baffles me. I suppose
most of them are afraid to drop
out, conscious of the protection UP
gives against each other.</q>
</p>

<p>
He picked up a report. <q>Here's
Monet, originally colonized by a
bunch of painters, writers, musicians
and such. They had dreams of starting
a new race</q>&mdash;Metaxa snorted&mdash;<q>with
everybody artists. They were all
so impractical that they even managed
to crash their ship on landing.
For three hundred years they were
uncontacted. What did they have in
the way of government by that time?
A military theocracy, something like
the Aztecs of Pre-Conquest Mexico.
A matriarchy, at that. And what's
their religion based on? That of ancient
Phoenicia including plenty of
human sacrifice to good old Moloch.
What can United Planets do about
it, now that they've become a member?
Work away very delicately, trying
to get them to at least eliminate
the child sacrifice phase of their culture.
Will they do it? Hell no, not
if they can help it. The Head Priestess
and her clique are afraid that if
they don't have the threat of sacrifice
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
to hold over the people, they'll be
overthrown.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was surprised. <q>I'd never
heard of a member planet like that.
Monet?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa sighed. <q>No, of course not.
You've got a lot to learn, Ronny, my
lad. First of all, what're Articles One
and Two of the United Planets Charter?</q>
</p>

<p>
That was easy. Ronny recited.
<q>Article One: <hi rend='italic'>The United Planets
organization shall take no steps to
interfere with the internal political,
socio-economic, or religious institutions
of its member planets.</hi> Article
Two: <hi rend='italic'>No member planets of United
Planets shall interfere with the internal
political, socioeconomic or religious
institutions of any other member
planet.</hi></q> He looked at the department
head. <q>But what's that got to
do with the fact that I was unfamiliar
with even the existence of Monet?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Suppose one of the advanced
planets, or even Earth itself,</q> Metaxa
growled, <q>openly discussed in magazines,
on newscasts, or wherever, the
religious system of Monet. A howl
would go up among the liberals, the
progressives, the do-gooders. And the
howl would be heard on the other
advanced planets. Eventually, the citizen
in the street on Monet would
hear about it and be affected. And
before you knew it, a howl would go
up from Monet's government. Why?
Because the other planets would be
interfering with her internal affairs,
simply by discussing them.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So what you mean is,</q> Ronny said,
<q>part of our job is to keep information
about Monet's government and religion
from being discussed at all on
other member planets.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right,</q> Metaxa nodded.
<q>And that's just one of our dirty little
jobs. One of many. Section G, believe
me, gets them all. Which brings
us to your first assignment.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Ronny inched forward in his chair.
<q>It takes me into space?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It takes you into space all right,</q>
Metaxa snorted. <q>At least it will after
a few months of indoctrination. I'm
sending you out after a legend, Ronny.
You're fresh, possibly you'll get
some ideas older men in the game
haven't thought of.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A legend?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I'm sending you to look for Tommy
Paine. Some members of the
department don't think he exists. I
do.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Tommy Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A pseudonym that somebody
hung on him way back before even
my memory in this Section. Did you
ever hear of Thomas Paine in American
history?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He wrote a pamphlet during the
Revolutionary War, didn't he?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>Common Sense,</q></q> Metaxa nodded.
<q>But he was more than that. He
was born in England but went to
America as a young man and his
writings probably did as much as
anything to put over the revolt
against the British. But that wasn't
enough. When that revolution was
successful he went back to England
and tried to start one there. The government
almost caught him, but he
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
escaped and got to France where he
participated in the French Revolution.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He seemed to get around,</q> Ronny
Bronston said.
</p>

<p>
<q>And so does this namesake of his.
We've been trying to catch up with
him for some twenty years. How long
before that he was active, we have no
way of knowing. It was some time
before we became aware of the fact
that half the revolts, rebellions, revolutions
and such that occur in the
United Planets have his dirty finger
stirring around in them.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But you said some department
members don't believe in his existence.</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa grunted. <q>They're working
on the theory that no one man could
do all that Tommy Paine has laid to
him. Possibly it's true that he sometimes
gets the blame for accomplishments
not his. Or, for that matter,
possibly he's more than one person. I
don't know.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> Ronny said hesitantly,
<q>what's an example of his activity?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa picked up another report
from the confusion of his desk.
<q>Here's one only a month old. Dictator
on the planet Megas. Kidnapped
and forced to resign. There's still confusion
but it looks as though a new
type of government will be formed
now.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But how do they know it wasn't
just some dissatisfied citizens of Megas?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It seems as though the kidnap
vehicle was an old fashioned Earth-type
helicopter. There were no such
on Megas. So Section G suspects it's
a possible Tommy Paine case. We
could be wrong, of course. That's
why I say the man's in the way of
being a legend. Perhaps the others
are right and he doesn't even exist. I
think he does, and if so, it's our job
to get him and put him out of circulation.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said slowly, <q>But why
would that come under our jurisdiction?
It seems to me that it would
be up to the police of whatever planet
he was on.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa looked thoughtfully
at his brown bottle, shook his head
and returned it to its drawer. He
looked at a desk watch. <q rend='pre'>Don't read
into the United Planets organization
more than there is. It's a fragile institution
with practically no independent
powers to wield. Every
member planet is jealous of its prerogatives,
which is understandable. It's
no mistake that Articles One and Two
are the basic foundation of the Charter.
No member planet wants to be
interfered with by any other or by
United Planets as an organization.
They want to be left alone.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Within our ranks we have planets
with every religion known to man
throughout the ages. Everything ranging
from primitive animism to the
most advanced philosophic ethic. We
have every political system ever
dreamed of, and every socio-economic
system. It can all be blamed on the
crack-pot manner in which we're colonizing.
Any minority, no matter how
small&mdash;religious, political, racial, or
whatever&mdash;if it can collect the funds
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
to buy or rent a spacecraft, can dash
off on its own, find a new Earth-type
planet and set up in business.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Fine. One of the prime jobs of
Section G is to carry out, to enforce,
Articles One and Two of the Charter.
A planet with Buddhism as its state
religion, doesn't want some die-hard
Baptist missionary stirring up controversy.
A planet with a feudalistic socio-economic
systems doesn't want
some hot-shot interplanetary businessman
coming in with some big deal
that would eventually cause the feudalistic
nobility to be tossed onto the
ash heap. A planet with a dictatorship
doesn't want subversives from
some democracy trying to undermine
their institutions&mdash;and vice versa.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And its our job to enforce all this,
eh?</q> Ronny said.
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right,</q> Metaxa told him
sourly. <q>It's not always the nicest job
in the system. However, if you believe
in United Planets, an organization
attempting to co-ordinate in
such manner as it can, the efforts of
its member planets, for the betterment
of all, then you must accept
Section G and Interplanetary Security.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston thought about it.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa added, <q>That's why one of
the requirements of this job is that
you yourself be a citizen of United
Planets, rather than of any individual
planet, have no religious affiliations,
no political beliefs, and no racial prejudices.
You've got to be able to stand
aloof.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yeah,</q> Ronny said thoughtfully.
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa looked at his watch
again and sighed wearily. <q>I'll turn
you over to one of my assistants,</q> he
said. <q>I'll see you again, though, before
you leave.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Before I leave?</q> Ronny said, coming
to his feet. <q>But where do I start
looking for this Tommy Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How the hell would I know?</q> Ross
Metaxa growled.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In the outer office, Ronny said to
the receptionist, <q>Commissioner Metaxa
said for me to get in touch with
Sid Jakes.</q>
</p>

<p>
She said, <q>I'm Irene Kasansky. Are
you with us?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>I beg your pardon?</q>
</p>

<p>
She said impatiently, <q>Are you going
to be with the Section? If you
are, I've got to clear you with your old
job. You were in statistics over in
New Copenhagen, weren't you?</q>
</p>

<p>
Somehow it seemed far away now,
the job he'd held for more than five
years. <q>Oh, yes,</q> he said. <q>Yes, Commissioner
Metaxa has given me an appointment.</q>
</p>

<p>
She looked up at him. <q>Probably to
look for Tommy Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
He was taken aback. <q>That's right.
How did you know?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There was talk. This Section is
pretty well integrated.</q> She grimaced,
but on her it looked good. <q>One
big happy family. High interdepartmental
morale. That sort of jetsam.</q>
She flicked some switches. <q>You'll find
Supervisor Jakes through that door,
one to your left, two to your right.</q>
</p>

<p>
He could have asked one <emph>what</emph> to
his left and two <emph>what</emph> to his right, but
evidently Irene Kasansky thought he
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
had enough information to get him
to his destination. She'd gone back to
her work.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p18.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
It was one turn to his left and two
turns to his right. The door was lettered
simply <hi rend='italic'>Sidney Jakes</hi>. He knocked
and a voice shouted happily, <q>It's
open. It's always open.</q>
</p>

<p>
Supervisor Jakes was as informal
as his superior. His attire was on the
happy-go-lucky side, more suited for
sports wear than a fairly high ranking
job in the ultra-staid Octagon.
</p>

<p>
He couldn't have been much older
than Ronny Bronston but he had a
nervous vitality about him that would
have worn out the other in a few
hours. He jumped up and shook
hands. <q>You must be Bronston. Call
me Sid.</q> He waved a hand at a typed
report he'd been reading. <q>Now I've
seen them all. They've just applied
for entry to United Planets. Republic.
What a name, eh?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What?</q> Ronny said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Sit down, sit down.</q> He rushed
Ronny to a chair, saw him seated, returned
to the desk and flicked an
order box switch. <q>Irene,</q> he said, <q>do
up a badge for Ronny, will you?
You've got his code, haven't you?
Good. Send it over. Bronze, of course.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes turned back to Ronny
and grinned at him. He motioned to
the report again. <q>What a name for a
planet. Republic. Bunch of screw-balls,
again. Out in the vicinity of
Sirius. Based their system on Plato's
<hi rend='italic'>Republic</hi>. Have to go the whole way.
Don't even speak Basic. Certainly not.
They speak Ancient Greek. That's
going to be a neat trick, finding interpreters.
How'd you like the Old
Man?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, dazed at the conversational
barrage, <q>Old Man? Oh, you
mean Commissioner Metaxa.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sure, sure,</q> Sid grinned, perching
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
himself on the edge of the desk. <q>Did
he give you that drink of tequila during
working hours routine? He'd like
to poison every new agent we get.
What a character.</q>
</p>

<p>
The grin was infectious. Ronny
said carefully, <q>Well, I did think his
method of hiring a new man was a
little&mdash;cavalier.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Cavalier, yet,</q> Sid Jakes chortled.
<q>Look, don't get the Old Man wrong.
He knows what he's doing. He always
knows what he's doing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But he took me on after only two
or three minutes conversation.</q>
</p>

<p>
Jakes cocked his head to one side.
<q>Oh? You think so? When did you
first apply for interplanetary assignment,
Ronny?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't know, about three years
ago.</q>
</p>

<p>
Jakes nodded. <q>Well, depend on it,
you've been under observation for
that length of time. At any one period,
Section G is investigating possibly
a thousand potential agents. We
need men but qualifications are high.</q>
</p>

<p>
He hopped down from his position,
sped around to the other side of the
desk and lowered himself into his
chair. <q>Don't get the wrong idea,
though. You're not in. You're on probation.
Whatever the assignment the
Old Man gave you, you've got to
carry it out successfully before you're
full fledged.</q> He flicked the order-box
switch and said, <q>Irene, where the
devil's Ronny's badge?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston heard the office
girl's voice answer snappishly.
</p>

<p>
<q>All right, all right,</q> Jakes said. <q>I
love you, too. Send it in when it
comes.</q> He turned to Ronny. <q>What
<emph>is</emph> your assignment?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He wants me to go looking for
some firebrand nicknamed Tommy
Paine. I'm supposed to arrest him.
The commissioner said you'd give me
details.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Sid Jakes' face went serious. He
puckered up his lips. <q>Wow, that'll
be a neat trick to pull off,</q> he said.
He flicked the order-box switch again.
Irene's voice snapped something before
he could say anything and Sid
Jakes grinned and said, <q>O.K., O.K.,
darling, but if this is the way you're
going to be I won't marry you. Then
what will the children say? Besides,
that's not what I called about. Have
ballistics do up a model H gun for
Ronny, will you? Be sure it's adjusted
to his code.</q>
</p>

<p>
He flicked off the order box and
turned back to Ronny. <q>I understand
you're familiar with hand guns. It's
in this report on you.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny nodded. He was just beginning
to adjust to this free-wheeling
character. <q>What will I need a gun
for?</q>
</p>

<p>
Jakes laughed. <q>Heavens to Betsy,
you babe in the woods. Do you realize
this Tommy Paine character has supposedly
stirred up a couple of score
wars, revolutions and revolts? Not to
speak of having laid in his lap two or
three dozen assassinations. He's a
quick lad with a gun. A regular Nihilist.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nihilist?</q>
</p>

<p>
Jakes chuckled. <q>When you've been
in this Section for a while, you'll be
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
familiar with every screwball outfit
man has ever dreamed up. The Nihilists
were a European group, mostly
Russian, back in the Nineteenth
Century. They believed that by bumping
off a few Grand Dukes and a
Czar or so they could force the ruling
class to grant reforms. Sometimes
they were pretty ingenious. Blew up
trains, that sort of thing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Look here,</q> Ronny said, <q>what
motivates this Paine fellow? What's
he get out of all this trouble he stirs
up?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Search me. Nobody seems to
know. Some think he's a mental case.
For one thing, he's not consistent.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How do you mean?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, he'll go to one planet and
break his back trying to overthrow,
say, feudalism. Then, possibly after
being successful, he goes to another
planet and devotes his energies to
establishing the same socio-economic
system.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny assimilated that. <q>You're
one of those who believes he exists?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, he exists all right, all right,</q>
Sid Jakes said happily. <q>Matter of fact,
I almost ran into him a few years
ago.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny leaned forward. <q>I guess I
ought to know about it. The more information
I have, the better.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sure, sure,</q> Jakes said. <q>This deal
of mine was on one of the Aldebaran
planets. A bunch of nature boys had
settled there.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nature boys?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Um-m-m. Back to nature. The
trouble with the human race is that
it's got too far away from nature. So
a whole flock of them landed on this
planet. They call it Mother, of all
things. They landed and set up a
primitive society. Absolute stone age.
No metals. Lived by the chase and by
picking berries, wild fruit, that sort of
thing. Not even any agriculture.
Wore skins. Bows and arrows were
the nearest thing they allowed themselves
in the way of mechanical devices.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good grief,</q> Ronny said.
</p>

<p>
<q>It was a laugh,</q> Jakes told him.
<q>I was assigned there as Section G
representative with the UP organization.
Picture it. We had to wear
skins for clothes. We had to confine
ourselves to two or three long houses.
Something like the American Iroquois
lived in before Columbus. Their
society on Mother was based on
primitive communism. The clan, the
phratry, the tribe. Their religion was
mostly a matter of knocking into
everybody's head that any progress
was taboo. Oh, it was great.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, were they happy?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What's happiness? I suppose they
were as happy as anybody ever averages.
Frankly, I didn't mind the assignment.
Lots of fishing, lots of
hunting.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Well, where does
Tommy Paine come in?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He snuck up on us. Started way
back in the boondocks away from any
of the larger primitive settlements.
Went around putting himself over as
a holy man. Cured people of various
things from gangrene to eye diseases.
Given antibiotics and such, you can
imagine how successful he was.</q>
</p>

<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>

<p>
<q>Well, what harm did he do?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I didn't say he did any harm. But
in that manner he made himself awfully
popular. Then he'd pull some
trick like showing them how to smelt
iron, and distribute some corn and
wheat seed around and plant the idea
of agriculture. The local witch doctors
would try to give him a hard
time, but the people figured he was a
holy man.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, what happened finally?</q>
Ronny wasn't following too well.
</p>

<p>
<q>Communications being what they
were, before he'd been discovered by
the central organization&mdash;they had a
kind of Council of Tribes which met
once a year&mdash;he'd planted so many
ideas that they couldn't be stopped.
The young people'd never go back to
flint knives, once introduced to iron.
We went looking for friend Tommy
Paine, but he got wind of it and took
off. We even found where he'd hidden
his little space cruiser. Oh, it was
Paine, all right, all right.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But what harm did he do? I don't
understand,</q> Ronny scowled.
</p>

<p>
<q>He threw the whole shebang on
its ear. Last I heard, the planet had
broken up into three main camps.
They were whaling away at each other
like the Assyrians and Egyptians.
Iron weapons, chariots, domesticated
horses. Agriculture was sweeping the
planet. Population was exploding.
Men were making slaves out of each
other, to put them to work. Oh, it was
a mess from the viewpoint of the
original nature boys.</q>
</p>

<p>
A red light flickered on his desk
and Sid Jakes opened a delivery
drawer and dipped his hand into it.
It emerged with a flat wallet. He
tossed it to Ronny Bronston.
</p>

<p>
<q>Here you are. Your badge.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny opened the wallet and examined
it. He'd never seen one before,
but for that matter he'd never
heard of Section G before that morning.
It was a simple enough bronze
badge. It said on it, merely, <hi rend='italic'>Ronald
Bronston, Section G, Bureau of Investigation,
United Planets</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes explained. <q>You'll get co-operation
with that through the Justice
Department anywhere you go.
We'll brief you further on procedure
during indoctrination. You in turn, of
course, are to co-operate with any
other agent of Section G. You're under
orders of anyone with</q>&mdash;his hand
snaked into a pocket and emerged
with a wallet similar to Ronny's&mdash;<q>a
silver badge, carried by a First
Grade Agent, or a gold one of Supervisor
rank.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny noted that his badge wasn't
really bronze. It had a certain sheen, a
brightness.
</p>

<p>
Jakes said, <q>Here, look at this.</q> He
tossed his own badge to the new
man. Ronny looked down at it in surprise.
The gold had gone dull.
</p>

<p>
Jakes laughed. <q>Now give me
yours.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny got up and walked over to
him and handed it over. As soon as the
other man's hand touched it, the
bronze lost its sheen.
</p>

<p>
Jakes handed it back. <q>See, it's
tuned to you alone,</q> he said. <q>And
mine is tuned to my code. Nobody
can swipe a Section G badge and
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
impersonate an agent. If anybody ever
shows you a badge that doesn't have
its sheen, you know he's a fake. Neat
trick, eh?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Very neat,</q> Ronny admitted. He
returned the other's gold badge.
<q>Look, to get back to this Tommy
Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
But the red light flickered again
and Jakes brought forth from the delivery
drawer a hand gun complete
with shoulder harness. <q>Nasty weapon,</q>
he said. <q>But we'd better go on
down to the armory and show you its
workings.</q>
</p>

<p>
He stood up. <q>Oh, yes, don't let me
forget to give you a communicator.
A real gizmo. About as big as a
woman's vanity case. Puts you in immediate
contact with the nearest Section
G office, no matter how near or
far away it is. Or, if you wish, in contact
with our offices here in the Octagon.
Very neat trick.</q>
</p>

<p>
He led Ronny from his office
and down the corridors beyond to an
elevator. He said happily, <q>This is a
crazy outfit, this Section G. You'll
probably love it. Everybody does.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Ronny learned to love Section G&mdash;in
moderation.
</p>

<p>
He was initially taken aback by
the existence of the organization at
all. He'd known, of course, of the Department
of Justice and even of the
Bureau of Investigation, but Section
G was hush-hush and not even United
Planets publications ever mentioned
it.
</p>

<p>
The problems involved in remaining
hush-hush weren't as great as all
that. The very magnitude of the UP
which involved more than two thousand
member planets, allowed of departments
and bureaus hidden away
in the endless stretches of red tape.
</p>

<p>
In fact, although Ronny Bronston
had spent the better part of his life,
thus far, in studying for a place in
the organization, and then working in
the Population Statistics Department
for some years, he was only now beginning
to get the over-all picture of
the workings of the mushrooming,
chaotic United Planets organization.
</p>

<p>
It was Earth's largest industry by
far. In fact, for all practical purposes
it was her only major industry. Tourism,
yes, but even that, in a way, was
related to the United Planets organization.
Millions of visitors whose ancestors
had once emigrated from the
mother planet, streamed back in racial
nostalgia. Streamed back to see
the continents and oceans, the Arctic
and the Antarctic, the Amazon River
and Mount Everest, the Sahara and
New York City, the ruins of Rome
and Athens, the Vatican, the Louvre
and the Hermitage.
</p>

<p>
But the populace of Earth, in its
hundreds of millions were largely
citizens of United Planets and worked
in the organization and with its auxiliaries
such as the Space Forces.
</p>

<p>
Section G? To his surprise, Ronny
found that Ross Metaxa's small section
of the Bureau of Investigation
seemed almost as great a secret within
the Bureau as it was to the man in
the street. At one period, Ronny wondered
if it were possible that this
was a department which had been
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
lost in the wilderness of boondoggling
that goes on in any great bureaucracy.
Had Section G been set up a century
or so ago and then forgotten by those
who had originally thought there was
a need for it? In the same way that it
is usually more difficult to get a statute
off the lawbooks than it was originally
to pass it, in the same manner eliminating
an office, with its employees
can prove more difficult than originally
establishing it.
</p>

<p>
But that wasn't it. In spite of the
informality, the unconventional brashness
of its personnel on all levels,
and the seeming chaos in which its
tasks were done, Section G was no
make-work project set up to provide
juicy jobs for the relatives of high
ranking officials. To the contrary, it
didn't take long in the Section before
anybody with open eyes could see that
Ross Metaxa was privy to the decisions
made by the upper echelons of
UP.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston came to the conclusion
that the appointment he'd received
was putting him in a higher
bracket of the UP hierarchy than he'd
at first imagined.
</p>

<p>
His indoctrination course was a
strain such as he'd never known in
school years. Ross Metaxa was evidently
of the opinion that a man
could assimilate concentrated information
at a rate several times faster
than any professional educator ever
dreamed possible. No threats were
made, but Ronny realized that he
could be dropped even more quickly
than he'd seemed to have been taken
on. There were no classes, to either
push or retard the rate of study. He
worked with a series of tutors, and
pushed himself. The tutors were almost
invariably Section G agents,
temporarily in Greater Washington
between assignments, or for briefing
on this phase or that of their work.
</p>

<p>
Even as he studied, Ronny Bronston
kept the eventual assignment, at
which he was to prove himself, in
mind. He made a point of inquiring
of each agent he met, about Tommy
Paine.
</p>

<p>
The name was known to all, but no
two reacted in the same manner. Several
of them even brushed the whole
matter aside as pure legend. <emph>Nobody</emph>
could accomplish all the trouble that
Tommy Paine had supposedly stirred
up.
</p>

<p>
To one of these, Ronny said plaintively,
<q>See here, the Old Man believes
in him, Sid Jakes believes in
him. My final appointment depends
on arresting him. How can I ever secure
this job, if I'm chasing a myth?</q>
</p>

<p>
The other shrugged. <q>Don't ask
me. I've got my own problems. O.K.,
now, let's run over this question of
Napoleonic law. There are at least
two hundred planets that base their
legal system on it.</q>
</p>

<p>
But the majority of his fellow employees
in Section G had strong
enough opinions on the interplanetary
firebrand. Three or four even
claimed to have seen him fleetingly,
although no two descriptions jibed.
That, of course, could be explained.
The man could resort to plastic surgery
and other disguise.
</p>

<p>
Theories there were in plenty,
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
some of them going back long years,
and some of them pure fable.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q>Look,</q> Ronny said in disgust one
day after a particularly unbelievable
siege with two agents recently returned
from a trouble spot in a planetary
system that involved three aggressive
worlds which revolved about
the same sun. <q>Look, it's impossible
for one man to accomplish all this.
He's blamed for half the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>coups
d'états</foreign>, revolts and upheavals that
have taken place for the past quarter
century. It's obvious nonsense. Why,
a revolutionist usually spends the
greater part of his life toppling a government.
Then, once it's toppled, he
spends the rest of his life trying to
set up a new government&mdash;and he's
usually unsuccessful.</q>
</p>

<p>
One of the others was shaking his
head negatively. <q>You don't understand
this Tommy Paine's system,
Bronston.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You sure don't,</q> the other agent, a
Nigerian, grinned widely. <q>I've been
on planets where he'd operated.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny leaned forward. The three
of them were having a beer in a part
of the city once called Baltimore.
<q>You have?</q> he said. <q>Tell me about
it, eh? The more background I get
on this guy, the better.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sure. And this'll give you an idea
of how he operates, how he can get
so much trouble done. Well, I was on
this planet Goshen, understand? It
had kind of a strange history. A bunch
of colonists went out there, oh, four
or five centuries ago. Pretty healthy
expedition, as such outfits go. Bright
young people, lots of equipment, lots
of know-how and books. Well, through
sheer bad luck everything went wrong
from the beginning. Everything. Before
they got set up at all they had an
explosion that killed off all their communications
technicians. They lost
contact with the outside. O.K. Within
a couple of centuries they'd gotten
into a state of chattel slavery. Pretty
well organized, but static. Kind of an
Athenian Democracy on top, a hierarchy,
but nineteen people out of
twenty were slaves, and I mean real
slaves, like animals. They were at this
stage when a scout ship from the UP
Space Forces discovered them and, of
course, they joined up.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Where does Tommy Paine come
in?</q> Ronny said. He signaled to a
waiter for more beer.
</p>

<p>
<q>He comes in a few years later. I
was the Section G agent on Goshen,
understand? No planet was keener
about Articles One and Two of the
UP Charter. The hierarchy understood
well enough that if their people
ever came to know about more
advanced socio-economic systems it'd
be the end of Goshen's Golden Age.
So they allowed practically no intercourse.
No contact whatsoever between
UP personnel and anyone outside
the upper class, understand? All
right. That's where Tommy Paine
came in. It couldn't have taken him
more than a couple of months at
most.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston was fascinated.
<q>What'd he do?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He introduced the steam engine,
and then left.</q>
</p>

<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>

<p>
Ronny was looking at him blankly.
<q>Steam engine?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That and the fly shuttle and the
spinning jenny,</q> the Nigerian said.
<q>That Goshen hierarchy never knew
what hit them.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was still blank. The waiter
came up with the steins of beer, and
Ronny took one and drained half of
it without taking his eyes from the
storyteller.
</p>

<p>
The other agent took it up. <q>Don't
you see? Their system was based on
chattel slavery, hand labor. Given
machinery and it collapses. Chattel
slavery isn't practical in a mechanized
society. Too expensive a labor
force, for one thing. Besides, you
need an educated man and one with
some initiative&mdash;qualities that few
slaves possess&mdash;to run an industrial
society.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny finished his beer. <q>Smart
cooky, isn't he?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He's smart all right. But I've got
a still better example of his fouling
up a whole planetary socio-economic
system in a matter of weeks. A friend
of mine was working on a planet
with a highly-developed feudalism.
Barons, lords, dukes, counts and no-accounts,
all stashed safely away in
castles and fortresses up on the top
of hills. The serfs down below did all
the work in the fields, provided servants,
artisans and foot soldiers for the
continual fighting that the aristocracy
carried on. Very similar to Europe
back in the Dark Ages.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So?</q> Ronny said. <q>I'd think that'd
be a deal that would take centuries
to change.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Section G agent laughed.
<q>Tommy Paine stayed just long
enough to introduce gunpowder.
That was the end of those impregnable
castles up on the hills.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What gets me,</q> Ronny said slowly,
<q>is his motivation.</q>
</p>

<p>
The other two both grunted agreement
to that.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Toward the end of his indoctrination
studies, Ronny appeared one
morning at the Octagon Section G
offices and before Irene Kasansky.
Watching her fingers fly, listening to
her voice rapping and snapping, O.K.-ing
and rejecting, he came to the
conclusion that automation could go
just so far in office work and then you
were thrown back on the hands of
the efficient secretary. Irene was a
one-woman office staff.
</p>

<p>
She looked up at him. <q>Hello,
Ronny. Thought you'd be off on your
assignment by now. Got any clues on
Tommy Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> he said. <q>That's why I'm
here. I wanted to see the commissioner.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>About what?</q> She flicked a
switch. When a light flickered on one
of her order boxes, she said into it,
<q>No,</q> emphatically, and turned back
to him.
</p>

<p>
<q>He said he wanted to see me again
before I took off.</q>
</p>

<p>
She fiddled some more, finally said,
<q>All right, Ronny. Tell him he's got
time for five minutes with you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Five minutes!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then he's got an appointment
with the Commissioner of Interplanetary
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
Culture,</q> she said. <q>You'd better
hurry along.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston retraced the route
of his first visit here. How long ago?
It already seemed ages since his probationary
appointment. Your life
changed fast when you were in Section
G.
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa's brown bottle, or its
twin, was sitting on his desk and he
was staring at it glumly. He looked
up and scowled.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ronald Bronston,</q> Ronny said.
<q>Irene Kasansky told me to say I
could have five minutes with you,
then you have an appointment with
the Commissioner of Interplanetary
Culture.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I remember you,</q> Metaxa said.
<q>Have a drink. Interplanetary Culture,
ha! The Xanadu Folk Dance
Troupe. They dance nude. They've
been touring the whole UP. Roaring
success everywhere, obviously. Now
they're assigned to Virtue, a planet
settled by a bunch of Fundamentalists.
They want the troupe to wear
Mother Hubbards. The Xanadu outfit
is in a tizzy. They've been insulted.
They claim they're the most
modest members of UP, that nudity
has nothing to do with modesty. The
government of Virtue said that's fine
but they wear Mother Hubbards or
they don't dance. Xanadu says it'll
withdraw from United Planets.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston said painfully,
<q>Why not let them?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa poured himself a Denebian
tequila, offered his subordinate
a drink again with a motion of
the bottle. Ronny shook his head.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa said, <q>If we didn't take
steps to soothe these things over, there
wouldn't be any United Planets. In
any given century every member in
the organization threatens to resign at
least once. Even Earth. And then
what'd happen? You'd have interplanetary
war before you knew it.
What'd you want, Ronny?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I'm about set to take up my search
for this Tommy Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, yes, Tommy Paine. If you
catch him, there are a dozen planets
where he'd be eligible for the death
sentence.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny cleared his throat. <q>There
must be. What I wanted was the file
on him, sir.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>File?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, sir. I've got to the point
where I want to cram up on everything
we have on him. So far, all I've
got is verbal information from individual
agents and from Supervisor Jakes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't be silly, Ronny. There isn't
any file on Tommy Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny just looked at the other.
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa said impatiently,
<q>The very knowledge of the existence
of the man is top secret. Isn't that
obvious? Suppose some reporter got
the story and printed it. If our member
planets knew there was such a
man and that we haven't been able to
scotch him, why they'd drop out of
UP so fast the computers couldn't keep
up with it. There's not one planet
in ten that feels secure enough to lay
itself open to subversion. Why some
of our planets are so far down the
ladder of social evolution they live under
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
primitive tribal society; their
leaders, their wise men and witch-doctors,
whatever you call them, are
scared someone will come along and
establish chattel slavery. Those planets
that have a system based on slavery
are scared to death of developing feudalism,
and those that have feudalism
are afraid of <hi rend='italic'>creeping capitalism</hi>.
Those with an anarchistic basis&mdash;and
we have several&mdash;are afraid of being
subverted to statism, and those who
have a highly developed government
are afraid of anarchism. The socio-economic
systems based on private
ownership of property hate the very
idea of socialism or communism, and
vice versa, and those planets with
state capitalism hate them both.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p27.png' rend='width: 30%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
He glared at Ronny. <q>What do you
think the purpose of this Section is,
Bronston? Our job is to keep our
member planets from being afraid of
each other. If they found that Tommy
Paine and his group, if he's got a
group, were buzzing through the system
subverting everything they can
foul up, they'd drop out of UP and
set up quarantines that a space mite
couldn't get through. No sir, there is
no file on Tommy Paine and there
never will be. And if any news of him
spreads to the outside, this Section
will emphatically deny he exists. I
hope that's clear.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, yes sir,</q> Ronny said. The
commissioner had been all but roaring
toward the end.
</p>

<p>
The order box clicked on Ross
Metaxa's desk and he said loudly,
<q>What?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't yell at me,</q> Irene snapped
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
back. <q>Ronny's five minutes are up.
You've got an appointment. I'm getting
tired of this job. It's a mad-house.
I'm going to quit and get a
job with Interplanetary Finance.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, yeah.</q> Ross snarled back.
<q>That's what you think. I've taken
measures. Top security. I've warned
off every Commissioner in UP. You
can't get away from me until you
reach retirement age. Although I
don't know why I care. I hate nasty
tempered women.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Huh!</q> she snorted and clicked off.
</p>

<p>
<q>There's a woman for you,</q> Ross
Metaxa growled at Ronny. <q>It's too
bad she's indispensable. I'd love to
fire her. Look, you go in and see Sid
Jakes. Seems to me he said something
about Tommy Paine this morning.
Maybe it's a lead.</q> He came to his
feet. <q>So long and good luck, Ronny.
I feel optimistic about you. I think
you'll get this Paine troublemaker.</q>
</p>

<p>
Which was more than Ronny
Bronston thought.
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes already had a visitor in
his office, which didn't prevent him
from yelling, <q>It's open,</q> when Ronny
Bronston knocked.
</p>

<p>
He bounced from his chair, came
around the desk and shook hands enthusiastically.
<q>Ronny!</q> he said, his
tone implying they were favorite
brothers for long years parted. <q>You're
just in time.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny took in the office's other
occupant appreciatively. She was a
small girl, almost tiny. He estimated
her to be at least half Chinese, or
maybe Indo-Chinese, the rest probably
European or North American.
</p>

<p>
She evidently favored her Asiatic
blood, her dress was traditional Chinese,
slit almost to the thigh Shanghai
style.
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes said, <q>Tog Lee Chang
Chu&mdash;Ronny Bronston. You'll be
working together. Bloodhounding old
Tommy Paine. A neat trick if you
can pull it off. Well, are you all set
to go?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny mumbled something to the
girl in the way of amenity, then
looked back at the supervisor. <q>Working
together?</q> he said.
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right. Lucky you, eh?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog Lee Chang Chu said demurely,
<q>Possibly Mr. Bronston objects to
having a female assistant.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes snorted, and hurried
around his desk to resume his seat.
<q>Does he look crazy? Who'd object to
having a cutey like you around day in
and day out? Call him Ronny. Might
as well get used to it. Two of you'll be
closer than man and wife.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Assistant?</q> Ronny said, bewildered.
<q>What do I need an assistant
for?</q> He turned his eyes to the girl.
<q>No reflection on you, Miss ... ah,
Tog.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes laughed easily. <q>Section
G operatives always work in pairs,
Ronny. Especially new agents. The
advantages will come home to you as
you go along. Look on Tog Lee Chang
Chu as a secretary, a man Friday.
This isn't her first assignment, of
course. You'll find her invaluable.</q>
</p>

<p>
The supervisor plucked a card from
an order box. <q>Now here's the dope.
Can you leave within four hours?
There's a UP Space Forces cruiser
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
going to Merlini, they can drop you
off at New Delos. Fastest way you
could possibly get there. The cruiser
takes off from Neuve Albuquerque
in, let's see, three hours and forty-five
minutes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>New Delos?</q> Ronny said, taking
his eyes from the girl and trying to
catch up with the grasshopper-like
conversation of his superior.
</p>

<p>
<q>New Delos it is,</q> Jakes said happily.
<q>With luck, you might catch him
before he can get off the planet.</q> He
chuckled at the other's expression.
<q>Look alive, Ronny! The quarry is
flushed and on the run. Tommy
Paine's just assassinated the Immortal
God-King of New Delos. A neat
trick, eh?</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The following hours were chaotic.
There was no indication of how long
a period he'd be gone. For all he
knew, it might be years. For that matter,
he might never return to Earth.
This Ronny Bronston had realized
before he ever applied for an interplanetary
appointment. Mankind was
exploding through this spiral arm of
the galaxy. There was a racial enthusiasm
about it all. Man's destiny lay
out in the stars, only a laggard stayed
home of his own accord. It was the
ambition of every youth to join the
snowballing avalanche of man into
the neighboring stars.
</p>

<p>
It took absolute severity by Earth
authorities to prevent the depopulation
of the planet. But someone had
to stay to administer the ever more
complicated racial destiny. Earth became
a clearing house for a thousand
cultures, attempting, with only moderate
success, to co-ordinate her widely
spreading children. She couldn't
afford to let her best seed depart. Few
there were, any more, allowed to emigrate
from Earth. New colonies drew
their immigrants from older ones.
</p>

<p>
Lucky was the Earthling able to
find service in interplanetary affairs,
in any of the thousands of tasks that
involved journey between member
planets of UP. Possibly one hundredth
of the population at one time
or another, and for varying lengths of
time, managed it.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston was lucky and
knew it. The thing now was to pull
off this assignment and cinch the appointment
for good.
</p>

<p>
He packed in a swirl of confusion.
He phoned a relative who lived in
the part of town once known as Richmond,
explained the situation and
asked that the other store his things
and dispose of the apartment he'd
been occupying.
</p>

<p>
Luckily, the roof of his apartment
building was a copter-cab pickup
point and he was able to hustle over
to the shuttleport in a matter of a few
minutes.
</p>

<p>
He banged into the reservations
office, hurried up to one of the windows
and said into the screen, <q>I've
got to get to Neuve Albuquerque
immediately.</q>
</p>

<p>
The expressionless voice said, <q>The
next rocket leaves at sixteen hours.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sixteen hours! I've got to be at
the spaceport by that time!</q>
</p>

<p>
The voice said dispassionately, <q>We
are sorry.</q>
</p>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<p>
The bottom fell out of everything.
Ronny said, desperately, <q>Look, if I
miss my ship in Neuve Albuquerque,
what is the next spaceliner leaving
from there for New Delos?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A moment, citizen.</q> There was an
agonized wait, and then the voice
said, <q>There is a liner leaving for New
Delos on the 14th of next month. It
arrives in New Delos on the 31st,
Basic Earth calendar.</q>
</p>

<p>
The 31st! Tommy Paine could be
halfway across the galaxy by that
time.
</p>

<p>
A gentle voice next to him said,
<q>Could I help, Ronny?</q>
</p>

<p>
He looked around at her. <q>Evidently,
nobody can,</q> he said disgustedly.
<q>There's no way of getting to
Neuve Albuquerque in time to get
that cruiser to New Delos.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog Lee Chang Chu fished in her
bag and came up with a wallet similar
to the one in which Ronny carried
his Section G badge. She held it
up to the screen. <q>Bureau of Investigation,
Section G,</q> she said calmly.
<q>It will be necessary that Agent Bronston
and myself be in Neuve Albuquerque
within the hour.</q>
</p>

<p>
The metallic voice said, <q>Of course.
Proceed to your right and through
Corridor K to Exit Four. Your rocket
will be there. Identify yourself to
Lieutenant Economou who will be at
the desk at Exit Four.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog turned to Ronny Bronston.
<q>Shall we go?</q> she said demurely.
</p>

<p>
He cleared his throat, feeling foolish.
<q>Thanks, Tog,</q> he said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Not at all, Ronny. Why, this is my
job.</q>
</p>

<p>
Was there the faintest of sarcasm
in her voice? It hadn't been more
than a couple of hours ago that he
had been hinting rather heavily to
Sid Jakes that he needed no assistance.
</p>

<p>
She even knew the layout of the
West Greater Washington shuttleport.
Her small body swiveled through
the hurrying passengers, her small
feet a-twinkle, as she led him to and
down Corridor K and then to the
desk at Exit Four.
</p>

<p>
Ronny anticipated her here. He
flashed his own badge at the chair-borne
Space Forces lieutenant there.
</p>

<p>
<q>Lieutenant Economou?</q> he said.
<q>Ronald Bronston, of the Bureau of
Investigation, Section G. We've got
to get to Neuve Albuquerque soonest.</q>
</p>

<p>
The lieutenant, only mildly impressed,
said, <q>We can have you in
the air in ten minutes, citizen. Just a
moment and I'll guide you myself.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In the rocket, Ronny had time to
appraise her at greater length. She
was a delicately pretty thing, although
her expression was inclined to the
over-serious. There was only a touch
of the Mongolian fold at the corner
of her eyes. On her it looked unusually
good. Her complexion was that
which only the blend of Chinese and
Caucasian can give. Her figure, thanks
to her European blood, was fuller than
Eastern Asia usually boasts; tiny, but
full.
</p>

<p>
Let's admit it, he decided. My assistant
is the cutest trick this side of a
Tri-Di movie queen, and we're going
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
to be thrown in the closest of juxtaposition
for an indefinite time. This
comes under the head of work?
</p>

<p>
He said, <q>Look here, Tog, you were
with Sid Jakes longer than I was.
What's the full story?</q>
</p>

<p>
She folded her slim hands in her
lap, looking like a schoolgirl about to
recite. <q>Do you know anything about
the socio-economic system on New
Delos?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, no,</q> he admitted.
</p>

<p>
She said severely, <q>I'd think that
they would have given you more background
before an assignment of this
type.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said impatiently, <q>In the
past three months I've been filled in
on the economic systems, the religious
beliefs, the political forms, of a thousand
planets. I just happened to miss
New Delos.</q>
</p>

<p>
Her mouth expressed disapproval
by rucking down on the sides, which
was all very attractive but also irritating.
She said, <q>There are two thousand,
four hundred and thirty-six
member planets in the UP, I'd think
an agent of Section G would be up on
the basic situation on each.</q>
</p>

<p>
He had her there. He said snidely,
<q>Hate to contradict you, Tog, but the
number is two thousand, four hundred
and thirty-four.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then,</q> she nodded agreeably,
<q>membership has changed since this
morning when Menalaus and Aldebaran
Three were admitted. Have
two planets dropped out?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Look,</q> he said, <q>let's stop bickering.
What's the word on New Delos?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Did you ever read Frazer's <q>Golden
Bough</q>?</q> she said.
</p>

<p>
<q>No.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You should. At any rate, New
Delos is a theocracy. A priesthood
elite rules it. A God-King, who is
immortal, holds absolute authority.
The strongest of superstition plus an
efficient inquisition, keeps the people
under control.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sounds terrible,</q> Ronny growled.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why? Possibly the government is
extremely efficient and under it the
planet progressing at a rate in advance
of UP averages.</q>
</p>

<p>
He stared at her in surprise.
</p>

<p>
She said, <q>Would you rather be
ruled by the personal, arbitrary whims
of supremely wise men, or by laws
formulated by a mob?</q>
</p>

<p>
It stopped him momentarily. In all
his adult years, he couldn't remember
ever meeting an intelligent, educated
person who had been opposed to the
democratic theory.
</p>

<p>
<q>Wait a minute, now,</q> he said.
<q>Who decides that they're supremely
wise men who are doing this arbitrary
ruling? Let any group come to power,
by whatever means, and they'll
soon tell you they're an elite. But
let's get back to New Delos, from
what you've said so far, the people are
held in a condition of slavery.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What's wrong with slavery?</q> Tog
said mildly.
</p>

<p>
He all but glared at her. <q>Are you
kidding?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I seldom jest,</q> Tog said primly.
<q>Under the proper conditions, slavery
can be the most suitable system
for a people.</q>
</p>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<p>
<q>Under <emph>what</emph> conditions!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you forgotten your Earth
history to the point where Egypt,
Greece and Rome mean nothing to
you? Man made some of his outstanding
progress under slavery. And
do you contend that man's lot is necessarily
miserable given slavery? As far
back as Aesop we know of slaves who
have reached the heights in their society.
Slaves sometimes could and did
become the virtual rulers in ancient
countries.</q> She shrugged prettily.
<q>The prejudices which you hold today,
on Earth, do not necessarily apply
to all time, nor to all places.</q>
</p>

<p>
He said, impatiently, <q>Look, Tog,
we can go into this further, later. Let's
get back to New Delos. What happened?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>The very foundation of
their theocracy is the belief on the
part of the populace that the God-King
is immortal. No man conspires
against his Deity. Supervisor Jakes
informed me that it is understood by
UP Intelligence, that about once every
twenty years the priesthood secretly
puts in a new God-King. Plastic
surgery would guarantee facial resemblance,
and, of course, the rank
and file citizen would probably never
be allowed close enough to discover
that their God-King seemed different
every couple of decades. At any rate,
it's been working for some time.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And there's been no revolt against
this religious aristocracy?</q>
</p>

<p>
She shook her head. <q>Evidently not.
It takes a brave man to revolt against
both his king and his God at the same
time.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But what happened now?</q> Ronny
pursued.
</p>

<p>
<q>Evidently, right in the midst of a
particularly important religious ceremony,
with practically the whole
planet watching on TV, the God-King
was killed with a bomb. No
doubt about it, definitely killed. There
are going to be a lot of people on
New Delos wondering how it can be
that an immortal God-King can die.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And Sid thinks it's Tommy
Paine's work?</q>
</p>

<p>
She shifted dainty shoulders in a
shrug. <q>It's the sort of thing he does.
I suppose we'll learn when we get
there.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Even on the fast Space Forces cruiser,
the trip was going to take a week,
and there was precious little Ronny
Bronston could do until arrival. He
spent most of his time reading up on
New Delos and the several other planets
in the UP organization which had
fairly similar regimes. More than a
few theocracies had come and gone
during the history of man's development
into the stars.
</p>

<p>
He also spent considerable time
playing Battle Chess or talking with
Tog and with the ship's officers.
</p>

<p>
These latter were a dedicated
group, high in morale, enthusiastic
about their work which evidently involved
the combined duties of a
Navy, a Coast Guard, and a Coast and
Geodetic Survey system, if we use the
ocean going services of an earlier age
for analogy.
</p>

<p>
They all had the dream. The enthusiasm
of men participating in a
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
race's expansion to glory. There was
the feeling, even stronger here in
space than back on Earth, of man's
destiny being fulfilled, that humanity
had finally emerged from its infancy,
that the fledgling had finally found its
wings and got off the ground.
</p>

<p>
After one of his studying binges,
Ronny Bronston had spent an hour
or so once with the captain of the
craft, while that officer stood an easy
watch on the ship's bridge. There
was little enough to do in space,
practically nothing, but there was always
an officer on watch.
</p>

<p>
They leaned back in the acceleration
chairs before the ship's controls
and Ronny listened to the other's
space lore. Stories of far planets, as
yet untouched. Stories of planets that
had seemingly been suitable for colonization,
but had proved disastrous
for man, for this reason or that.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>And never in all this
time have we run into a life form
that has proved intelligent?</q>
</p>

<p>
Captain Woiski said, <q>No. Not that
I know of. There was an animal on
Shangri-La of about the mental level
of the chimpanzee. So far as I know,
that's the nearest to it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Shangri-La?</q> Ronny said. <q>That's
a new one.</q>
</p>

<p>
There was an affectionate gleam in
the captain's eye. <q>Yes,</q> he said. <q>If
and when I retire, I think that'd be
the planet of my choice, if I could
get permission to leave Earth, of
course.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny scowled in attempted memory.
<q>Now that you mention it, I
think I did see it listed the other
day among planets with a theocratic
government.</q>
</p>

<p>
The captain grunted protest. <q>If
you're comparing it to this New Delos
you're going to, you're wrong. There
can be theocracy and theocracy, I
suppose. Actually, I imagine Shangri-La
has the most, well <emph>gentle</emph> government
in the system.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was interested. His recent
studies hadn't led him to much respect
for a priesthood in political
power. <q>What's the particular feature
that's seemed to have gained your regard?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Moderation,</q> Woiski chuckled.
<q>They carry it almost to the point of
immoderation. But not quite. Briefly,
it works something like this. They
have a limited number of monks&mdash;I
suppose you'd call them&mdash;who spend
their time at whatever moves them.
At the arts, at scientific research, at
religious contemplation&mdash;any religion
will do&mdash;as students of anything and
everything, and at the governing of
Shangri-La. They make a point of enjoying
the luxuries in moderation and
aren't a severe drain on the rank and
file citizens of the planet.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>I have a growing distrust
of hierarchies. Who decides who
is to become a monk and who remain
a member of the rank and file?</q>
</p>

<p>
The captain said, <q>A series of the
best tests they can devise to determine
a person's intelligence and aptitudes.
From earliest youth, the whole
populace is checked and rechecked.
At the age of thirty, when it is considered
that a person has become
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
adult and has finished his basic education,
a limited number are offered
monkhood. Not all want it.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny thought about it. <q>Why not?
What are the shortcomings?</q>
</p>

<p>
The captain shrugged. <q>Responsibility,
I suppose.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The monks aren't allowed sex,
booze, that sort of thing, I imagine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good heavens, why not? In moderation,
of course.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And they live on a higher scale?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, no, not at all. Don't misunderstand.
The planet is a prosperous one.
Exceedingly prosperous. There is
everything needed for comfortable existence
for everyone. Shangri-La is
one planet where the pursuit of happiness
is pursuable by all.</q> Captain
Woiski chuckled again.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>It sounds good
enough, although I'm leery of benevolent
dictatorships. The trouble with
them is that it's up to the dictators to
decide what's benevolent. And almost
always, nepotism rears its head,
favoritism of one sort or another.
How long will it be before one of
your moderate monks decides he'll
moderately tinker with the tests, or
whatever, just to be sure his favorite
nephew makes the grade? A high
I.Q. is no guarantee of integrity.</q>
</p>

<p>
The captain didn't disagree. <q>That's
always possible, I suppose. One guard
against it, in this case, is the matter of
motive. The <emph>privilege</emph> of being a monk
isn't as great as all that. Materially,
you aren't particularly better off than
any one else. You have more leisure,
that's true, but actually most of them
are so caught up in their studies or
research that they put in more hours
of endeavor than does the farmer or
industrial worker on Shangri-La.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> Ronny said, <q>let's just hope
that Tommy Paine never hears of this
place.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Who?</q> the captain said.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston reversed his engines.
<q>Oh, nobody important. A guy
I know of.</q>
</p>

<p>
Captain Woiski scowled. <q>Seems to
me I've heard the name.</q>
</p>

<p>
At first Ronny leaned forward with
quick interest. Perhaps the cruiser's
skipper had a lead. But, no, he sank
back into his chair. That name was
strictly a Section G pseudonym. No
one used it outside the department,
and he'd already said too much by
using the term at all.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said idly, <q>Probably two different
people. I think I'll go on back
and see how Tog is doing.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Tog was at her communicator
when he entered the tiny ship's
lounge. Ronny could see in the brilliant
little screen of the compact device,
the grinning face of Sid Jakes.
Tog looked up at Ronny and smiled,
then clicked the device off.
</p>

<p>
<q>What's new?</q> Ronny said.
</p>

<p>
She moved graceful shoulders. <q>I
just called Supervisor Jakes. Evidently
there's complete confusion on New
Delos. Mobs are storming the temples.
In the capital the priests tried to
present a new God-King and he was
laughed out of town.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny snorted cynically. <q>Sounds
good to me. The more I read about
New Delos and its God-King and his
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
priesthood, the more I think the best
thing that ever happened to the planet
was this showing them up.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog looked at him, the sides of
her mouth tucking down as usual
when she was going to contradict
something he said. <q>It sounds bad to
me,</q> she said. <q>Tommy Paine's work
is done. He'll be off to some other
place and we won't get there in time
to snare him.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny considered that. It was
probably true. <q>I wonder,</q> he said
slowly, <q>if it's possible for us to get a
list of all ships that have blasted off
since the assassination, all ships and
their destination from New Delos.</q>
</p>

<p>
The idea grew in him. <q>Look! It's
possible that a dictatorial government
such as theirs would immediately
quarantine every spaceport on the
planet.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>There's only one spaceport
on New Delos. The priesthood
didn't encourage trade or even communication
with the outside. Didn't
want its people contaminated.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Holy smokes!</q> Ronny blurted. <q>It's
possible that Tommy Paine's on that
planet and can't get off. Look, Tog,
see if you can raise the Section G
representative on New Delos and&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said demurely, <q>I already have
taken that step, Ronny, knowing that
you'd want me to. Agent Mouley
Hassan has promised to get the name
and destination of every passenger
that leaves New Delos.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny sat down at a table and
dialed himself a mug of stout.
<q>Drink?</q> he said to Tog. <q>Possibly
we've got something to celebrate.</q>
</p>

<p>
She shook her head disapprovingly.
<q>I don't use depressants.</q>
</p>

<p>
There was nothing more to be discussed
about New Delos, they simply
would have to wait until their arrival.
Ronny switched subjects. <q>Ever
hear of the planet Shangri-La?</q> he
asked her. He took a sip of his brew.
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course,</q> she said. <q>A rather
small planet, Earth type within four
degrees. Noted for its near perfect
climate and its scenic beauty.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Captain was talking about it,</q>
Ronny said. <q>Sounds like a regular
paradise.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog made a negative sound.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, what's wrong with Shangri-La?</q>
Ronny said impatiently.
</p>

<p>
<q>Static,</q> she said briefly.
</p>

<p>
He looked at her. <q>It sounds to me
as though it's developed a near perfect
socio-economic system. What do
you mean, static?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No push, no drive,</q> Tog said definitely.
<q>Everyone&mdash;what is the old
term?&mdash;everyone has it made. The
place is stagnating. I wouldn't be
surprised to see Tommy Paine show
up there sooner or later.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Look, since we've
known each other, have I ever said
anything you agree with?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog raised her delicate eyebrows.
<q>Why, Ronny. You know perfectly
well we both agreed that the eggs
for breakfast were quite inedible.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny came to his feet again. Considering
her size, she certainly was an
irritating baggage. <q>I think I'll go to
my room and see if I can get any inspirations
on tracking down our
quarry.</q>
</p>

<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>

<p>
<q>Good night, Ronny,</q> she said demurely.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
They ran into a minor difficulty
upon arrival at New Delos. The captain
called both Ronny Bronston and
Tog Lee Chang Chu to the bridge.
</p>

<p>
He nodded in the direction of the
communications screen. A bald headed,
robed character&mdash;obviously a
priest&mdash;scowled at them.
</p>

<p>
Captain Woiski said, <q>The Sub-Bishop
informs me that the provisional
government has ruled that any
spacecraft landing on New Delos cannot
take off again without permission
and that every individual who lands,
even United Planets personnel, will
need an exit visa before being allowed
to depart.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Then you can't
land?</q>
</p>

<p>
The captain said reasonably, <q>My
destination is Merlini. I've gone out
of my way slightly to drop you off
here. But I can't afford to take the
chance of having my ship tied up for
what might be an indefinite period.
Evidently, there's considerably civil
disorder down there.</q>
</p>

<p>
From the screen the priest snapped,
<q>That is an inaccurate manner of describing
the situation.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sorry,</q> the captain said dryly.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston said desperately,
<q>But, captain, Miss Tog and I simply
have to land.</q> He reached for his
badge. <q>High priority, Bureau of Investigation.</q>
</p>

<p>
The captain shrugged his hefty
shoulders. <q>Sorry, I have no instructions
that allow me to risk tying up
my ship. Here's a possibility. Can you
pilot a landing craft? I could spare
you one, then you and your assistant
would be the only ones involved.
You could turn it over to whatever
Space Forces base we have here.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said miserably, <q>No. I'm
not a space pilot.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am,</q> Tog said softly. <q>The idea
sounds excellent.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We shall expect you,</q> the Sub-Bishop
said. The screen went blank.
</p>

<p>
Tog Lee Chang Chu piloted a
landing craft with the same verve that
she seemed to be able to handle any
other responsibility. As he sat in the
seat next to her, Ronny Bronston
took in her practiced flicking of the
controls from the side of his eyes. He
wondered vaguely at the efficiency of
such Section G officials as Metaxa
and Jakes that they would assign an
unknown quality such as himself to
a task as important as running down
Tommy Paine, and then as an assistant
provide him with an experienced
operative such as Tog. The bureaucratic
mind can be a dilly, he decided.
Was the fact that she was a
rather delicately constructed girl a
factor? He felt the weight of the
Model-H gun nestled under his left
armpit. Perhaps in the clutch Section
G preferred men as agents.
</p>

<p>
They swooped into a landing that
brought them as close to the control
tower as was practical. In a matter of
moments there was a guard of twenty
or more sloppily uniformed men
about their small craft.
</p>

<p>
Tog made a move. <q>Welcoming
committee,</q> she said.
</p>

<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p37.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
They climbed out the circular port,
and flashed their United Planets Bureau
of Investigation badges to the
youngish looking soldier who seemed
in command. He was indecisive.
</p>

<p>
<q>United Planets?</q> he said. <q>All I
know is I'm supposed to arrest anybody
landing.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny snapped, <q>We're to be taken
immediately to United Planets headquarters.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, I don't know about that. I
don't take orders from foreigners.</q>
</p>

<p>
One of his men was nervously fingering
the trigger of his submachine
gun.
</p>

<p>
Ronny's mouth went dry. He had
the feeling of being high, high on a
rock face, inadequately belayed from
above.
</p>

<p>
Tog said smoothly, <q>But, major,
I'm sure whoever issued your orders
had no expectation of a special delegation
from the United Planets coming
to congratulate your new authorities
on their success. Of course, it's
unknown to arrest a delegation from
United Planets.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is?</q> he frowned at her. <q>I mean,
you are?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> Tog said sweetly.
</p>

<p>
Ronny took the hint. <q>Where can
we find a vehicle, major, to get us to
the capital and to United Planets
headquarters? Evidently we arrived
before we were expected. There
should have been a big welcoming
committee here.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh,</q> the obviously recently promoted
lad said hesitantly. <q>Well, I
suppose we can make arrangements.
This way please.</q> He grinned at Tog
as they walked toward the administration
building. <q>Do all girls dress
like you on Earth?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, no,</q> she said demurely.
</p>

<p>
<q>That's too bad,</q> he said gallantly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, major!</q> Tog said, keeping
her eyes on the tarmac.
</p>

<p>
At the administration building
there was little of order, but eventually
they managed to arrange for their
transportation. Luckily, they were
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
supplied with a chauffeur driven helio-car.
</p>

<p>
Luckily, because without the chauffeur
to help them run the gauntlet
they would have been held up by parades,
demonstrations and monstrous
street meetings a dozen times before
they ever reached their destination.
Twice, Ronny stopped short of drawing
his gun only by a fraction when
half drunken demonstrators stopped
them.
</p>

<p>
The driver, a wispy, sad looking
type, shook his head. <q>There's no
going back now,</q> he told them over
his shoulder. <q>No going back. Last
week I was all with the rest, I never
did believe David the One was really
Immortal. But you was just used to
the idea, see? It'd always been that
way, with the priests running everything
and we was used to it. Now I
wish we was still that way. At least
you knew how you stood, see? Now,
what's going to happen?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's an interesting question,</q>
Tog said politely.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Possibly you'll have
the chance to build a better world,
now.</q>
</p>

<p>
The driver shot a contemptuous
look over his shoulder. <q>Better world?
What do I want with a better world?
I just don't want to be bothered. I've
been getting my three squares a day,
got a nice little flat for my family.
How do I know it's not going to be a
worse world?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's always a possibility,</q> Tog
told him. <q>Do most people seem to
feel the same?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Practically everybody I know
does,</q> he said glumly. <q>But the fat's in
the fire now. The priests are trying to
hold on but their government is falling
apart all over the place.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> Ronny said, <q>at least you
can figure just about anything in the
way of a new government will be
better than one based on superstition
and inquisition. It couldn't get worse.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Things can always get worse,</q> the
other contradicted him sadly.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
They left the cab before an impressively
tall, many windowed building
in city center. As they mounted
the steps, Ronny frowned at her.
<q>You seemed to be encouraging that
man in his pessimism. So far as I can
see, the best thing that ever happened
to this planet was toppling that
phony priesthood.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Perhaps,</q> she said agreeably.
<q>However, the man's mind was an
ossified one. A surprisingly large percentage
of people have them, especially
when it comes to institutions
such as religion and government. We
weren't going to be able to teach him
anything, but it was possible to learn
from him.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny grunted his disgust. <q>What
could we possibly learn from him?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said mildly, <q>We could learn
what people of the street were thinking.
It might give us some ideas about
what direction the new government
will take.</q>
</p>

<p>
They approached the portals of the
building and were halted by an armed
Space Forces guard of half a dozen
men. Their sergeant saluted, taking in
their obvious other-planet clothing.
</p>

<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>

<p>
<q>Identifications, please,</q> he said
briskly.
</p>

<p>
They showed their badges and
were passed on through. Ronny said
to him, <q>Much trouble, sergeant?</q>
</p>

<p>
The other shrugged. <q>No. Just precautions,
sir. We've been here only
three or four weeks. Civil disturbance.
We're used to it. Were over on Montezuma
two basic months ago. Now
there was <emph>real</emph> trouble. Had to shoot
our way out.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog called, <q>Coming Ronny? I have
this elevator waiting.</q>
</p>

<p>
He followed her, scowling. An
idea was trying to work its way
through. Somehow he missed getting
it.
</p>

<p>
Headquarters of the Department of
Justice were on the eighth floor. A
receptionist clerk led them through
three or four doors to the single office
which housed Section G.
</p>

<p>
A red eyed, exhausted agent looked
up from the sole desk and snarled
a question at them. Ronny didn't get
it, but Tog said mildly, <q>Probationary
Agent Ronald Bronston and Tog Lee
Chang Chu. On special assignment.</q>
She flicked open her badge so that
the other could see it.
</p>

<p>
His manner changed. <q>Sorry,</q> he
said, getting up to shake hands. <q>I'm
Mouley Hassan, in charge of Section
G on New Delos. We've just had a crisis
here, as you can imagine. The
worst of it's now over.</q> He added
sourly, <q>I hope. All my assistants
have already taken off for Avalon.</q>
He was a short statured, dark complected
man, his features betraying
his Semitic background.
</p>

<p>
Ronny shook hands with him and
said, <q>Sorry to bother you at a time
like this.</q>
</p>

<p>
They found chairs and Mouley
Hassan flicked a key on his order box
and said to them, <q>How about a
drink? They make a wonderful
sparkling wine on this planet. Trust
any theocracy to have top potables.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny accepted the offer, Tog refused
it politely. She sat demurely,
her hands in her lap.
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan ran a weary hand
through already mussed hair. <q>What's
this special assignment you're on?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Commissioner Metaxa
has sent me looking for Tommy
Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Tommy Paine!</q> the other blurted.
<q>At a time like this, when I haven't
had three nights' sleep in the last
three basic weeks, you come around
looking for Tommy Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was taken aback. <q>Sid Jakes
seemed to think this might be one
of Paine's jobs.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said mildly, <q>What better
place to look for Tommy Paine, than
in a situation like this, Agent Hassan?</q>
Her eyebrows went up. <q>Or
don't you think the quest for Paine
is an important one?</q>
</p>

<p>
The other subsided somewhat. <q>I
suppose you're right,</q> he said. <q>I'm
deathly tired. Do whatever you want.
But don't expect much from me.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, just a trifle tartly, Ronny
thought, <q>We'll have to call on you,
as usual, Agent Hassan. There's probably
no single job in Section G more
important than the pursuit of Tommy
Paine.</q>
</p>

<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>

<p>
<q>All right, all right,</q> Mouley Hassan
admitted. <q>I'll co-operate. How
long have you been away from
Earth?</q> he said to Ronny.
</p>

<p>
<q>About one basic week.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh,</q> he grunted. <q>This is your
first stop, eh? Well, I don't envy you
your job.</q> He brought a cool bottle
from a delivery drawer in the desk
along with two glasses. <q>Here's the
wine.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny leaned forward to accept
the glass. <q>This situation here,</q> he
said, <q>do you think it can be laid to
Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan shrugged wearily.
<q>I don't know.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny sipped the drink, looking at
the tired agent over the glass rim.
<q>From what we understand, check has
been kept on all persons leaving the
planet since the bombing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Check is right. There's only one
ship that took off and it carried nobody
except my assistants. If you ask
me, I still needed them, but some
brass hat back on Earth decided they
were more necessary over on Avalon.</q>
He was disgusted.
</p>

<p>
Ronny put the glass down. <q>You
mean only one ship's left this planet
since the God-King was killed?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right. It was like pulling
teeth to get the visas.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How many men aboard?</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan looked at him
speculatively. <q>Four-man crew and
six Section G operatives.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said brightly, <q>Why, that
means, then, that either Tommy
Paine is still on this planet, or he's
one of the passengers or crew members
of that ship.</q> She added, <q>That
is, of course, unless he had a private
craft, hidden away somewhere.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny slumped back into his chair
as some of the ramifications came
home to him. <q>If it was Tommy
Paine at all,</q> he said.
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan nodded. <q>That's
always a point.</q> He finished his glass
and looked pleadingly at Tog. <q>Look,
I have work. If I can finish some of
it, I might have time for some sleep.
Couldn't we postpone the search for
Tommy Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said nothing to him.
</p>

<p>
Ronny came to his feet. <q>We'll get
along. A couple of ideas occur to me.
I'll check with you later.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Fine,</q> the agent said. He shook
hands with them again. He said,
somehow more to Tog than to Ronny,
<q>I know how important your job
is. It's just that I've been pushed to
the point where I can't operate efficiently.</q>
</p>

<p>
She smiled her understanding,
gave him her small, delicate hand.
</p>

<p>
In the elevator, Ronny said to her,
<q>Why should this sort of thing particularly
affect Section G?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>It's times like this that
planets drop out of the UP. Or, possibly,
get into the hands of some
jingoistic military group and start off
halfcocked to provoke a war with
some other planet, or to missionarize
or propagandize it.</q> She thought
about it a moment. <q>A new revolution,
in government or religion,
seems almost invariably to want to
spread the light. An absolute compulsion
to bring to others the new truths
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
that they've found.</q> She added, her
voice holding a trace of mockery,
<q>Usually the new truths are rather
hoary ones, and there are few interested
in hearing them.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
They spent their first day in getting
accommodations in a centrally located
hotel, in making arrangements,
through the Department of Justice,
for the local means of exchange&mdash;it
turned out to be coinage, based on
gold&mdash;and getting the feel of their
surroundings.
</p>

<p>
Evidently Delos, the capital city of
the planet New Delos, was but slowly
emerging from the chaos that had
taken over on the assassination. A
provisional government, composed of
representatives of half a dozen different
organizations which had
sprung up like mushrooms following
the collapse of the regime, had assumed
power. Elections had been
promised and were to be brought off
when arrangements could be made.
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile, the actual government
was still largely in the hands of the
lower echelons of the priesthood. A
nervous priesthood it was, seemingly
desirous of getting out from under
while the going was good, afraid of
being held responsible for former excesses.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston, high hopes still
in his head, looked up the Sub-Bishop
who had given them landing orders
while they were still aboard the
Space Forces cruiser. Tog was off
making arrangements for various details
involved in their being in Delos
in its time of crisis.
</p>

<p>
A dozen times, on his way over to
keep his appointment with the official,
Ronny had to step into doorways, or
in other wise make himself inconspicuous.
Gangs of demonstrators
roamed the street, some of them
drunken, looking for trouble, and
scornful of police or the military.
Twice, when it looked as though he
might be roughed up, Ronny drew
his gun and held it in open sight,
ready for use, but not threateningly.
The demonstrators made off.
</p>

<p>
His throat was dry by the time he
reached his destination. The life of a
Section G agent, on interplanetary
assignment, had its drawbacks.
</p>

<p>
The Sub-Bishop had formerly been
in charge of Interplanetary Communications
which involved commerce
as well as intercourse with United
Planets. It must have been an ultra-responsible
position only a month
ago. Now his offices were all but deserted.
</p>

<p>
He looked at Ronny's badge, only
vaguely interested. <q>Section G of the
Bureau of Investigation,</q> he said. <q>I
don't believe I am aware of your responsibilities.
However,</q> he nodded
with sour courtesy, <q>please be seated.
You must forgive my lack of ability
to offer refreshment. Isn't there an
old tradition about rats deserting a
sinking ship? I am afraid my former
assistants had rodentlike instincts.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Section G deals with
Interplanetary Security, sir&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am addressed as Holiness,</q> the
other said.
</p>

<p>
Ronny looked at him. <q>Sorry,</q> he
said. <q>I am a citizen of the United
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
Planets, not any one planet, even
Earth. UP citizens have complete religious
freedom. In my case I am unaffiliated
with any church.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Sub-Bishop let it pass. He
said sourly, <q>I am afraid that even
here on New Delos, I am seldom
honoured by my title any more. Go on,
you say you deal with Interplanetary
Security.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's correct. In cases like this
we're interested in checking to see
if there is any possibility that citizens
of planets other than New Delos
are involved in your internal affairs.</q>
</p>

<p>
The other's eyes were suddenly
slits. He said, heavily, <q>You suspect
that David the One was assassinated
by an alien?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny had to tread carefully here.
<q>I make no such suggestion. I am
merely here to check on the possibility.
If such was the case, my duty
would be to arrest the man, or men.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>If we got hold of him, you'd have
small chance of asserting your authority,</q>
the priest growled. <q>What
did you want to know?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I understand that no interplanetary
craft have left New Delos since
the assassination.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>None except a United Planets
ship which was carefully inspected.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said tightly, <q>But what facilities
do you have to check on secret
spaceports, possibly located in some
remote desert or mountain area?</q>
</p>

<p>
The New Delian laughed sourly.
<q>There is no other planet in all the
United Planets with our degree of
security. We even imported the most
recent developments in artificial satellites
equipped with the most delicate
of detection devices. I assure you, it
is utterly impossible for a spacecraft
to land or take off from New Delos
without our knowledge.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston's eyes lit with excitement.
<q>These security measures of
yours. To what extent do you keep
under observation all aliens on the
planet?</q>
</p>

<p>
The priest's chuckle had a nasty
quality. <q>You are quite ignorant of
our institutions, evidently. Every person
on New Delos, in every way of
life, was under constant survey from
the cradle to the grave. Aliens were
highly discouraged. When they appeared
on New Delos at all, they
were restricted in their movements
to this, our capital city.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny let air whistle from his
lungs. <q>Then,</q> he said triumphantly,
<q>if any alien had anything to do with
this, he is still on the planet. Can you
get me a list of all aliens?</q>
</p>

<p>
The other laughed again, still sourly.
<q>But there are none. None except
you employees of United Planets.
I'm afraid you're on a wild-goose
chase.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny stared at him blankly. <q>But
commercial representatives, cultural
exchange&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
The priest said flatly, <q>No. None
at all. All commerce was handled
through UP. We encouraged no cultural
exchanges. We wished to keep
our people uncorrupted. United
Planets alone had the right to land
on our one spaceport.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Section G agent came to his
feet. This was much simpler than he
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
could ever have hoped for. He
thanked the other, but avoided the
necessity of shaking hands, and left.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
He found a helio-cab and dialed it
to the UP building, finding strange
the necessity of slipping coins into
the vehicle's slots until the correct
amount for his destination had been
deposited. Coinage was no longer in
use on Earth.
</p>

<p>
At the UP building he retraced his
steps of the day before to the single
office of Section G.
</p>

<p>
To his surprise, not only Mouley
Hassan was there, but Tog as well.
Hassan had evidently had at least a
few hours of sleep. He was in better
shape.
</p>

<p>
They exchanged the usual amenities
and took their chairs again.
</p>

<p>
Hassan said, <q>We were just gossiping.
It's been years since I've been in
Greater Washington. Lee Chang tells
me that Sid Jakes is now a Supervisor.
I worked with him for a while,
when I first joined Section G. How
about a glass of wine?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Look. If Tommy
Paine was connected with this, and
it's almost positive he was, we've got
him.</q>
</p>

<p>
The others looked at him.
</p>

<p>
<q>You've evidently been busy,</q> Tog
said mildly.
</p>

<p>
He turned to her. <q>He's trapped,
Tog! He can't get off the planet.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan rubbed a hand
through his hair. <q>It'd be hard, all
right. They've got the people under
rein here such as you've never seen
before. Or they did until this blew up.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny sketched the situation to
Tog, winding up with, <q>The only
thing that makes sense is that it's a
Tommy Paine job. The local citizens
would never have been able to get
their hands on such a bomb, or been
able to have made the arrangements
for its delivery. They're under too
much surveillance.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said thoughtfully, <q>but how
did he escape all this surveillance?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't you understand? He's
working here, in this building, as an
employee of UP. There is no other
alternative.</q>
</p>

<p>
They stared at him.
</p>

<p>
<q>I think perhaps you're right,</q> Tog
said finally.
</p>

<p>
Ronny turned to Mouley Hassan.
<q>Can you get a list of all UP employees?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course.</q> He flicked his order
box, barked a command into it.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>It's going to be a matter
of eliminating the impossible.
For instance, what is the earliest
known case of Tommy Paine's activity?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog thought back. <q>So far as we
know definitely, about twenty-two
years ago.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Fine,</q> Ronny said, increasingly
excited. <q>That will eliminate all persons
less than, say, forty years of age.
We can assume he was at least twenty
when he began.</q>
</p>

<p>
Hassan said, <q>Can we eliminate all
women employees?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>I'd think so. The few
times he's been seen, all reports are
of a man. And that case on the planet
Mother where he put himself over as
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
a Holy Man. He could hardly have
been a woman in disguise in a Stone
Age culture such as that.</q>
</p>

<p>
Hassan said, <q>And this Tommy
Paine has been flitting around this
part of the galaxy for years, so anyone
who has been here steadily for a period
of even a couple of years or so,
can't be suspect.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan thrust his hand
into a delivery drawer and brought
forth a handful of punched cards,
possibly fifty in all.
</p>

<p>
<q>Surely there's more people than
that working in this building,</q> Ronny
protested.
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan said, <q>No. I've
eliminated already everyone who is a
citizen of New Delos. Obviously,
Tommy Paine is an alien. We have
only forty-eight Earthlings and other
United Planets citizens working
here.</q>
</p>

<p>
He carried the cards to a small collator
and worked for a moment on
its controls, as Tog and Ronny
watched him with mounting tension.
<q>Let's see,</q> he muttered. <q>We eliminate
all women, all those less than
forty, all who haven't done a great
deal of travel, those who have been
here for several years.</q>
</p>

<p>
The end of it was that they eliminated
everyone employed in the UP
building.
</p>

<p>
The cards were stacked back on
Mouley Hassan's desk again, and the
three of them sat around and looked
glumly at them.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>He's tinkered with
the files. He counterfeited fake papers
for himself, or something. Possibly
he's pulled his own card and it
isn't in this stack you have.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan said, <q>We'll double-check
all those possibilities, but
you're wrong. Possibly a few hundred
years ago, but not today. Forgery and
counterfeiting are things of the past.
And, believe me, the Bureau of Investigation
and especially Section G,
may look on the slipshod side, but
they aren't. We're not going to find
anything wrong with those cards.
Tommy Paine simply is not working
for UP on New Delos.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then,</q> Ronny said, <q>there's only
one alternative. He's on this UP ship
going to, what was the name of its
destination?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Avalon,</q> Mouley Hassan said, his
face thoughtful.
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>Do you have any ideas
on the men aboard?</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan said, <q>There were
four crew men, and six of our agents.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>Unless one of them has
faked papers, the six agents are eliminated.
That leaves the crew members.
Do you know anything about
them?</q>
</p>

<p>
Hassan shook his head.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Let's communicate
with Avalon. Tell our representatives
there to be sure that none of the occupants
of that ship leaves Avalon
until we get there.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan said, <q>Good idea.</q>
He turned to his screen and said into
it, <q>Section G, Bureau of Investigation,
on the Planet Avalon.</q>
</p>

<p>
In moment the screen lit up. An
elderly agent, as Section G agents
seemed to go, looked up at them.
</p>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<p>
Mouley Hassan held his silver badge
so the other could see it and on the
Avalon agent's nod said, <q>I'm Hassan
from New Delos. We've just had a
crisis here and there seems to be
a chance that it's a Tommy Paine job.
Agent Bronston here is on an assignment
tracking him down. I'll turn it
over to Bronston.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Avalon agent nodded again,
and looked at Ronny.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said urgently, <q>We haven't
the time to give you details, but every
indication is that Paine is on a UP
spacecraft with Avalon as its destination.
There are only ten men aboard,
and six of them are Section G operatives.</q>
</p>

<p>
The other pursed his lips. <q>I see.
You think you have the old fox cornered,
eh?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Possibly,</q> Ronny said. <q>There are
various ifs. Miss Tog and I can double
check here. Then as soon as we can
clear exit visas, we'll make immediate
way for Avalon.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Avalon Section G agent said,
<q>I haven't the authority to control the
movements of other agents, they have
as high rank as I have,</q> he added,
expressionlessly, <q>and probably higher
than yours.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>But the four-man
crew?</q>
</p>

<p>
The other said, <q>These men are
coming to Avalon to work on a job
that will take at least six months.
We'll make a routine check, and I'll
try and make sure the whole ten will
still be on Avalon when and if you
arrive.</q>
</p>

<p>
They had to be satisfied with that.
They checked all ways from the
middle, nor did it take long. There
was no doubt. If this was a Tommy
Paine job, and it almost surely was,
then there was only one way in which
he could have escaped from the planet
and that was by the single spacecraft
that had left, destination Avalon.
He was not on the planet, that
was definite Ronny felt. A stranger
on New Delos was as conspicuous as
a walrus in a goldfish bowl. There
simply were no such.
</p>

<p>
They spent most of their time
checking and rechecking United
Planets personnel, but there was no
question there either.
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan and others of UP
personnel helped cut the red tape involved
in getting exit visas from New
Delos. It wasn't as complicated as it
might have been a week or two before.
No one seemed to be so confident
of his authority in the new provisional
government that he dared
veto a United Planets request.
</p>

<p>
Mouley Hassan was able to arrange
for a small space yacht, slower
than a military craft, but capable of
getting them to Avalon in a few
days time. A one-man crew was sufficient,
Ronny, and especially Tog,
could spell him on the watches.
</p>

<p>
Time aboard was spent largely in
studying up on Avalon, going over
and over again anything known about
the elusive Tommy Paine, and playing
Battle Chess and bickering with
Tog Lee Chang Chu.
</p>

<p>
If it hadn't been for this ability to
argue against just about anything
Ronny managed to say, he could have
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
been attracted to her to the detriment
of the job. She was a good traveler,
few people are; she was an ultra-efficient
assistant; she was a joy to
look at; and she never intruded. But,
Great Guns, the woman could bicker.
</p>

<p>
The two of them were studying in
the ship's luxurious lounge when
Ronny looked up and said, <q>Do you
have any idea why those six agents
were sent to Avalon?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> she said.
</p>

<p>
He indicated the booklet he was
reading. <q>From what I can see here,
it sounds like one of the most advanced
planets in the UP. They've
made some of the most useful advances
in industrial techniques of the
past century.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, I don't know,</q> Tog mused. <q>I
haven't much regard for Industrial
Feudalism myself. It starts off with
a bang, but tends to go sterile.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Industrial feudalism,</q> he said indignantly.
<q>What do you mean? The
government is a constitutional monarchy
with the king merely a powerless
symbol. The standard of living is
high. Elections are honest and democratic.
They've got a three-party system....</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Which is largely phony,</q> Tog interrupted.
<q>You've got to do some
reading between the lines, especially
when the books you're reading are
turned out by the industrial feudalistic
publishing companies in Avalon.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What's this industrial feudalism,
you keep talking about? Avalon has a
system of free enterprise.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A gobbledygook term,</q> Tog said,
irritatingly. <q>Industrial feudalism is a
socio-economic system that develops
when industrial wealth is concentrated
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
into the hands of a comparatively
few families. It finally gets to the
point of a closed circle all but impossible
to break into. These industrial
feudalistic families become so
powerful that only in rare instances
can anyone lift himself into their society.
They dominate every field, including
the so-called labor unions,
which amount to one of the biggest
businesses of all. With their unlimited
resources they even own every
means of dispensing information.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You mean,</q> Ronny argued, <q>that
on Avalon you can't start up a newspaper
of your own and say whatever
you wish?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly you can, theoretically.
If you have the resources. Unfortunately,
such enterprises become increasingly
expensive to start. Or you
could start a radio, TV or Tri-Di station&mdash;if
you had the resources. However,
even if you overcame all your
handicaps and your newspaper or
broadcasting station became a success,
the industrial feudalistic families
in control of Avalon's publishing
and broadcasting fields have the endless
resources to buy you out, or
squeeze you out, by one nasty means
or another.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny snorted. <q>Well, the people
must be satisfied or they'd vote some
fundamental changes.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog nodded. <q>They're satisfied, and
no wonder. Since childhood every
means of forming their opinions have
been in the hands of industrial feudalistic
families&mdash;including the schools.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You mean the schools are private?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, they don't have to be. The
government is completely dominated
by the fifty or so families which for
all practical purposes own Avalon.
That includes the schools. Some of
the higher institutions of learning are
private, but they, too, are largely dependent
upon grants from the families.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Ronny was irritated by her know-all
air. He tapped the book he'd been
reading with a finger. <q>They don't
control the government. Avalon's got
a three-party system. Any time the
people don't like the government,
they can vote in an alternative.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's an optical illusion. There
are three parties, but each is dominated
by the fifty families, and election
laws are such that for all practical
purposes it's impossible to start
another party. Theoretically it's possible,
actually it isn't. The voters can
vary back and forth between the three
political parties but it doesn't make
any difference which one they elect.
They all stand for the same thing&mdash;a
continuation of the status quo.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Then you claim it isn't democracy
at all?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog sighed. <q>That's a much abused
word. Actually, pure democracy is
seldom seen. They pretty well had it
in primitive society where government
was based on the family. You
voted for one of your relatives in
your clan to represent you in the
tribal councils. Every one in the tribe
was equal so far as apportionments of
the necessities of life were concerned.
No one, even the tribal chiefs, ate
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
better than anyone else, no one had
a better home.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, snappishly, <q>And if
man had remained at that level, we'd
never have gotten anywhere.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right,</q> she said. <q>For progress,
man needed a leisure class.
Somebody with the time to study, to
experiment, to work things out.</q>
</p>

<p>
He said, <q>We're getting away from
the point. You said in spite of appearances
they don't have democracy
on Avalon.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They have a pretense of it. But
only free men can practice democracy.
So long as your food, clothing
and shelter are controlled by someone
else, you aren't free. Wait until I
think of an example.</q> She put her
right forefinger to her chin, thoughtfully.
</p>

<p>
Holy smokes, she was a cute trick.
If only she wasn't so confounded irritating.
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>Do you remember the
State of California in Earth history?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I think so. On the west coast of
North America.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right. Well, back in the
Twentieth Century, Christian calendar,
they had an economic depression.
During it a crackpot organization
called Thirty Dollars Every
Thursday managed to get itself on
the ballot. Times were bad enough
but had this particular bunch got into
power it would have become chaotic.
At first no thinking person took them
seriously, however a majority of people
in California at that time had
little to lose and in the final week
or so of the election campaign the
polls showed that Thirty Dollars Every
Thursday was going to win. So, a
few days before voting many of the
larger industries and businesses in
the State ran full page ads in the
newspapers. They said substantially
the same thing. <hi rend='italic'>If Thirty Dollars
Every Thursday wins this election,
our concern will close its doors. Do
not bother to come back to work
Monday.</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was scowling at her.
<q>What's your point?</q>
</p>

<p>
She shrugged delicate shoulders.
<q>The crackpots were defeated, of
course, which was actually good for
California. But my point is that the
voters of California were not actually
free since their livelihoods were controlled
by others. This is an extreme
case, of course, but the fact always
applies.</q>
</p>

<p>
A thought suddenly hit Ronny
Bronston. <q>Look,</q> he said. <q>Tommy
Paine. Do you think he's merely escaping
from New Delos, or is it possible
that Avalon is his next destination?
Is he going to try and overthrow
the government there?</q>
</p>

<p>
She was shaking her head, but
frowning. <q>I don't think so. Things
are quite stable on Avalon.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Stable?</q> he scowled at her. <q>From
what you've been saying, they're
pretty bad.</q>
</p>

<p>
She continued to shake her head.
<q>Don't misunderstand, Ronny. On an
assignment like this, it's easy to get
the impression that all the United
Planets are in a state of socio-political
confusion, but it isn't so. A small
minority of planets are ripe for the
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
sort of trouble Tommy Paine stirs
up. Most are working away, developing,
making progress, slowly evolving.
Avalon is one of these. The way
things are there, Tommy Paine couldn't
make a dent on changing things,
even if he wanted to, and there's no
particular reason to believe he does.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny growled. <q>From what I can
learn of the guy he's anxious to stir
up trouble wherever he goes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't know. If there's any pattern
at all in his activities, it seems to be
that he picks spots where things are
ripe to boil over on their own. He
acts as a catalyst. In a place like Avalon
he wouldn't get to first base.
Possibly fifty years from now, things
will have developed on Avalon to
the point where there is dissatisfaction.
By that time,</q> she said dryly,
<q>we'll assume Tommy Paine will no
longer be a problem to the Commissariat
of Interplanetary Affairs for
one reason or the other.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny took up his book again. He
growled, <q>I can't figure out his motivation.
If I could just put my finger
on that.</q>
</p>

<p>
For once she agreed with him.
<q>I've got an idea, Ronny, that once
you have that, you'll have Tommy
Paine.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
They drew blank on Avalon.
</p>

<p>
Or, at least, it was drawn for them
before they ever arrived.
</p>

<p>
The Section G agent permanently
assigned to that planet had already
checked and double checked the possibilities.
None of the four-man crew
of the UP spacecraft had been on
New Delos at the time of the assassination
of the God-King. They, and
their craft, had been light-years away
on another job.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston couldn't believe
it. He simply couldn't believe it.
</p>

<p>
The older agent, his name was
Jheru Bulchand, was definite. He
went over it with Ronny and Tog
in a bar adjoining UP headquarters.
He had dossiers on each of the ten
men, detailed dossiers. On the face of
it, none of them could be Paine.
</p>

<p>
<q>But one of them has to be,</q> Ronny
pleaded. He explained their method
of eliminating the forty-eight employees
of UP on New Delos.
</p>

<p>
Bulchand shrugged. <q>You've got
holes in that method of elimination.
You're assuming Tommy Paine is an
individual, and you have no reason
to. My own theory is that it's an organization.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said unhappily, <q>Then you're
of the opinion that there is a
Tommy Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
The older agent was puffing comfortably
on an old style briar pipe. He
nodded definitely. <q>I believe Tommy
Paine exists as an organization. Possibly
once, originally, it was a single
person, but now it's a group. How
large, I wouldn't know. Probably not
too large or by this time somebody
would have betrayed it, or somebody
would have cracked and we would
have caught them. Catch one and
you've got the whole organization
what with our modern means of interrogation.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>I've heard the opinion
before.</q>
</p>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<p>
Jheru Bulchand pointed at Ronny
with his pipe stem. <q>If its an organization,
then none of that eliminating
you did is valid. Your assassin could
have been one of the women. He
could have been one of the men you
eliminated as too young&mdash;someone
recently admitted to the Tommy
Paine organization.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny checked the last of his theories.
<q>Why did Section G send six of
its agents here?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nothing to do with Tommy
Paine,</q> Bulchand said. <q>It's a different
sort of crisis.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Just for my own satisfaction, what
kind of crisis?</q>
</p>

<p>
Bulchand sketched it quickly.
<q>There are two Earth type planets in
this solar system. Avalon was the
first to be colonized and developed
rapidly. After a couple of centuries,
Avalonians went over and settled on
Catalina. They eventually set up a
government of their own. Now Avalon
has a surplus of industrial products.
Her economic system is such
that she produces more than she can
sell back to her own people. There's
a glut.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said demurely, <q>So, of course,
they want to dump it in Catalina.</q>
</p>

<p>
Bulchand nodded. <q>In fact, they're
willing to give it away. They've offered
to build railroads, turn over
ships and aircraft, donate whole factories
to Catalina's slowly developing
economy.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>Well, how does that
call for Section G agents?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Catalina has evoked Article Two
of the UP Charter. No member planet
of UP is to interfere with the internal
political, socio-economic or religious
affairs of another member
planet. Avalon claims the Charter
doesn't apply since Catalina belongs
to the same solar system and since
she's a former colony. We're trying to
smooth the whole thing over, before
Avalon dreams up some excuse for
military action.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny stared at him. <q>I get the
feeling every other sentence is being
left out of your explanation. It just
doesn't make sense. In the first place,
why is Avalon as anxious as all that
to give away what sounds like a fantastic
amount of goods?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I told you, they have a glut. They've
overproduced and, as a result,
they've got a king-size depression on
their hands, or will have unless they
find markets.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, why not trade with some of
the planets that want her products?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said as though reasoning with
a youngster, <q>Planets outside her own
solar system are too far away for it
to be practical even if she had commodities
they didn't. She needs a
nearby planet more backward than
herself, a planet like Catalina.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, that brings us to the more
fantastic question. Why in the world
doesn't Catalina accept? It sounds
to me like pure philanthropy on the
part of Avalon.</q>
</p>

<p>
Bulchand was wagging his pipe
stem in a negative gesture. <q>Bronston,
governments are never motivated
by idealistic reasons. Individuals
might be, and even small groups, but
governments never. Governments,
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
including that of Avalon, exist for the
benefit of the class or classes that control
them. The only things that motivate
them are the interests of that
class.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, this sounds like an exception,</q>
Ronny said argumentatively.
<q>How can Catalina lose if the Avalonians
grant them railroads, factories
and all the rest of it?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog said, <q>Don't you see, Ronny?
It gives Avalon a foothold in the
Catalina economy. When the locomotives
wear out on the railroad, new
engines, new parts, must be purchased.
They won't be available on
Catalina because there will be no
railroad industry because none will
have ever grown up. Catalina manufacturers
couldn't compete with that
initial free gift. They'll be dependent
on Avalon for future equipment. In
the factories, when machines wear
out, they will be replaceable only
with the products of Avalon's industry.</q>
</p>

<p>
Bulchand said, <q>There's an analogy
in the early history of the United
States. When its fledgling steel industry
began, they set up a high tariff
to protect it against British competition.
The British were amazed and
indignant, pointing out that they
could sell American steel products at
one third the local prices, if only
allowed to do so. The United States
said no thanks, it didn't want to be
tied, industrially, to Great Britain's
apron strings. And in a couple of
decades American steel production
passed England's. In a couple of more
decades American steel production
was many times that of England's
and she was taking British markets
away from her all over the globe.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>At any rate,</q> Ronny said, <q>it's not
a Tommy Paine matter.</q>
</p>

<p>
Just for luck, though, Ronny and
Tog double checked all over again on
Bulchand's efforts. They interviewed
all six of the Section G agents. Each
of them carried a silver badge that
gleamed only for the individual who
possessed it. All of which eliminated
the possibility that Paine had assumed
the identity of a Section G
operative. So that was out.
</p>

<p>
They checked the four crew members,
but there was no doubt there,
either. The craft had been far away
at the time of the assassination on
New Delos.
</p>

<p>
On the third day, Ronny Bronston,
disgusted, knocked on the door of
Tog's hotel room. The door screen lit
up and Tog, looking out at him said,
<q>Oh, come on in, Ronny, I was just
talking to Earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
He entered.
</p>

<p>
Tog had set up her Section G communicator
on a desk top and Sid
Jakes' grinning face was in the tiny,
brilliant screen. Ronny approached
close enough for the other to take
him in.
</p>

<p>
Jakes said happily, <q>Hi, Ronny, no
luck, eh?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny shook his head, trying not
to let his face portray his feelings of
defeat. This after all was a probationary
assignment, and the supervisor
had the power to send Ronny
Bronston back to the drudgery of his
office job at Population Statistics.
</p>

<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>

<p>
<q>Still working on it. I suppose it's
a matter of returning to New Delos
and grinding away at the forty-eight
employees of the UP there.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes pursed his lips. <q>I don't
know. Possibly this whole thing was a
false alarm. At any rate, there seems
to be a hotter case on the fire. If our
local agents have it straight, Paine is
about to pull one of his coups on
Kropotkin. This is a top-top-secret,
of course, one of the few times we've
ever detected him before the act.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was suddenly alert, his fatigue
of disgust of but a moment ago,
completely forgotten. <q>Where?</q> he
said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Kropotkin,</q> Jakes said. <q>One of
the most backward planets in UP and
seemingly a setup for Paine's sort of
trouble making. The authorities, if
you can use the term applied to
Kropotkin, are already complaining,
threatening to invoke Article One of
the Charter, or to resign from UP.</q>
Jake looked at Tog again. <q>Do you
know Kropotkin, Lee Chang?</q>
</p>

<p>
She shook her head. <q>I've heard of
it, rather vaguely. Named after some
old anarchist, I believe.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's the place. One of the few
anarchist societies in UP. You don't
hear much from them.</q> He turned to
Ronny again. <q>I think that's your bet.
Hop to it, boy. We're going to catch
this Tommy Paine guy, or organization,
or whatever, soon or United
Planets is going to know it. We can't
keep the lid on indefinitely. If word
gets around of his activities, then
we'll lose member planets like Christmas
trees shedding needles after
New Year's.</q> He grinned widely.
<q>That's sounds like a neat trick, eh?</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Ronny Bronston had got to the
point where he avoided controversial
subjects with Tog even when provoked
and she had a sneaky little way
of provoking arguments. They had
only one really knock down and drag-out
verbal battle on the way to Kropotkin.
</p>

<p>
It had started innocently enough
after dinner on the space liner on
which they had taken passage for the
first part of the trip. To kill time they
were playing Battle Chess with its
larger board and added contingents
of pawns and castles.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said idly, <q>You know, in
spite of the fact that I'm a third generation
United Planets citizen and
employee, I'm just beginning to realize
how far out some of our member
planets are. I had no idea before.</q>
</p>

<p>
She frowned in concentration, before
moving. She was advancing her
men in echelon attack, taking losses
in exchange for territory and trying
to pen him up in such small space
that he couldn't maneuver.
</p>

<p>
She said, <q>How do you mean?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny lifted and dropped a shoulder.
<q>Well, New Delos and its theocracy,
for instance, and Shangri-La
and Mother and some of the other
planets with extremes in government
of socio-economic system. I hadn't
the vaguest idea about such places.</q>
</p>

<p>
She made a deprecating sound.
<q>You should see Amazonia, or, for
that matter, the Orwellian State.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>Amazonia</hi>,</q> he said, <q>does that
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
mean what it sounds like it does?</q>
</p>

<p>
She made her move and settled
back in satisfaction. Her pawns were
in such position that his bishops were
both unusable. He'd tried to play a
phalanx game in the early stages of
her attack, but she'd broken through,
rolling up his left flank after sacrificing
a castle and a knight.
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly does,</q> she said. <q>A fairly
recently colonized planet. A few
thousand feminists no men at all&mdash;moved
onto it a few centuries ago.
And it's still an out and out matriarchy.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny cleared his throat delicately.
<q>Without men ... ah, how did
they continue several centuries?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog suppressed her amusement.
<q>Artificial insemination, at first, so I
understand. They brought their, ah,
supply with them. But then there
were boys among the first generation
on the new planet and even the
Amazonians weren't up to cold bloodedly
butchering their children. So they
merely enslaved them. Nice girls.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny stared at her. <q>You mean
all men are automatically slaves on
this planet?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny made an improperly
thought out move, trying to bring up
a castle to reinforce his collapsing
flank. He said, <q>UP allows <emph>anybody</emph>
to join evidently,</q> and there was disgust
in his voice.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why not?</q> she said mildly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, there should be <emph>some</emph> standards.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog moved quickly, dominating
with a knight several squares he couldn't
afford to lose. She looked up at
him, her dark eyes sparking. <q>The
point of UP is to include all the planets.
That way at least conflict can be
avoided and some exchange of science,
industrial techniques and cultural
gains take place. And you must
remember that while in power practically
no socio-economic system will
admit to the fact that it could possibly
change for the better. But actually
there is nothing less stable. Socio-economic
systems are almost always
in a condition of flux. Planets such as
Amazonia might for a time seem so
brutal in their methods as to exclude
their right to civilized intercourse
with the rest. However, one of these
days there'll be a change&mdash;or one of
these centuries. They all change,
sooner or later.</q> She added softly,
<q>Even Han.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Han?</q> Ronny said.
</p>

<p>
Her voice was quiet. <q>Where I was
born, Ronny. Colonized from China
in the very early days. In fact, I spent
my childhood in a commune.</q> She
said musingly, <q>The party bureaucrats
thought their system an impregnable,
unchangeable one. Your move.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was fascinated. <q>And what
happened?</q> He was in full retreat
now, and with nowhere to go, his
pieces pinned up for the slaughter.
He moved a pawn to try and open
up his queen.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why don't you concede?</q> she said.
<q>Tommy Paine happened.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Paine!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Uh-huh. It's a long story. I'll tell
you about it some time.</q> She pressed
closer with her own queen.
</p>

<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>

<p>
He stared disgustedly at the board.
<q>Well, that's what I mean,</q> he muttered.
<q>I had no idea there were so
many varieties of crackpot politico-economic
systems among the UP
membership.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They're not necessarily crackpot,</q>
she protested mildly. <q>Just at different
stages of development.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not crackpot!</q> he said. <q>Here we
are heading for a planet named Kropotkin
which evidently practices anarchy.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Your move,</q> she said. <q>What's
wrong with anarchism?</q>
</p>

<p>
He glowered at her, in outraged
disgust. Was it absolutely impossible
for him to say anything without her
disagreement?
</p>

<p>
Tog said mildly, <q>The anarchistic
ethic is one of the highest man has
ever developed.</q> She added, after
a moment of pretty consideration.
<q>Unfortunately, admittedly, it hasn't
been practical to put to practice. It
will be interesting to see how they
have done on Kropotkin.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Anarchist ethic, yes,</q> Ronny
snapped. <q>I'm no student of the movement
but the way I understand it,
there isn't any.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog smiled sweetly. <q>The belief
upon which they base their teachings
is that no man is capable of judging
another.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny cast his eyes ceilingward.
<q>O.K., I give up!</q>
</p>

<p>
She began rapidly resetting the
pieces. <q>Another game?</q> she said
brightly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hey! I didn't mean the game! I
was just about to counterattack.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ha!</q> she said.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Section G agent on Kropotkin
was named Hideka Yamamoto, but
he was on a field tour and wouldn't
be back for several days. However,
there wasn't especially any great hurry
so far as Ronny Bronston and Tog
Lee Chang Chu knew. They got themselves
organized in the rather rustic
equivalent of a hotel, which was located
fairly near UP headquarters,
and took up the usual problems of
arranging for local exchange, meals,
means of transportation and such
necessities.
</p>

<p>
It was a greater problem than
usual. In fact, hadn't it been for the
presence of the UP organization,
which had already gone through all
this the hard way, some of the difficulties
would have been all but insurmountable.
</p>

<p>
For instance, there was no local
exchange. There was no medium of
exchange at all. Evidently simple
barter was the rule.
</p>

<p>
In the hotel&mdash;if it could be called
a hotel&mdash;lobby, Ronny Bronston
looked at Tog. <q>Anarchism!</q> he said.
<q>Oh, great. The highest ethic of all.
And what's the means of transportation
on this wonderful planet? The
horse. And how are we going to get a
couple of horses with no means of
exchange?</q>
</p>

<p>
She tinkled laughter.
</p>

<p>
<q>All right,</q> he said. <q>You're the
Man Friday. You find out the details
and handle them. I'm going out to
take a look around the town&mdash;if you
can call this a town.</q>
</p>

<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>

<p>
<q>It's the capital of Kropotkin,</q> Tog
said placatingly, though with a mocking
background in her tone. <q>Name
of Bakunin. And very pleasant, too,
from what little I've seen. Not a bit
of smog, industrial fumes, street dirt,
street noises&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How could there be?</q> he injected
disgustedly. <q>There isn't any industry,
there aren't any cars, and for all
practical purposes, no streets. The
houses are a quarter of a mile or so
apart.</q>
</p>

<p>
She laughed at him again. <q>City
boy,</q> she said. <q>Go on out there and
enjoy nature a little. It'll do you
good. Anybody who has cooped himself
up in that one big city, Earth,
all his life ought to enjoy seeing
what the great outdoors looks like.</q>
</p>

<p>
He looked at her and grinned. She
was cute as a pixie, and there were
no two ways about that. He wondered
for a moment what kind of a wife
she'd make. And then shuddered inwardly.
Life would be one big contradiction
of anything he'd managed to
get out of his trap.
</p>

<p>
He strolled idly along what was
little more than a country path and
it came to him that there were probably
few worlds in the whole UP
where he'd have been prone to do this
within the first few hours he'd been
on the planet. He would have been
afraid, elsewhere, of anything from
footpads to police, from unknown
vehicles to unknown traffic laws.
There was something bewildering
about being an Earthling and being
set down suddenly in New Delos or
on Avalon.
</p>

<p>
Here, somehow, he already had a
feeling of peace.
</p>

<p>
Evidently, although Bakunin was
supposedly a city, its populace tilled
their fields and provided themselves
with their own food. He could see no
signs of stores or warehouses. And
the UP building, which was no great
edifice itself, was the only thing in
town which looked even remotely
like a governmental building.
</p>

<p>
Bakunin was neat. Clean as a pin,
as the expression went. Ronny was
vaguely reminded of a historical Tri-Di
romance he'd once seen. It had
been laid in ancient times in a community
of the Amish in old Pennsylvania.
</p>

<p>
He approached one of the wooden
houses. The things would have been
priceless on Earth as an antique to be
erected as a museum in some crowded
park. For that matter it would
have been priceless for the wood it
contained. Evidently, the planet Kropotkin
still had considerable virgin
forest.
</p>

<p>
An old-timer smoking a pipe, sat
on the cottage's front step. He nodded
politely.
</p>

<p>
Ronny stopped. He might as well
try to get a little of the feel of the
place. He said courteously, <q>A pleasant
evening.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old-timer nodded. <q>As evenings
should be after a fruitful day's
toil. Sit down, comrade. You must be
from the United Planets. Have you
ever seen Earth?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny accepted the invitation and
felt a soothing calm descend upon
him almost immediately. An almost
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
disturbingly pleasant calm. He said,
<q>I was born on Earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ai?</q> the old man said. <q>Tell me.
The books say that Kropotkin is an
Earth type planet within what they
call a few degrees. But is it? Is Kropotkin
truly like the mother planet?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny looked about him. He'd
seen some of this world as the shuttle
rocket had brought them down from
the passing liner. The forests, the
lakes, the rivers, and the great sections
untouched by man's hands.
Now he saw the areas between
homes, the neat fields, the signs of
human toil&mdash;the toil of hands, not
machines.
</p>

<p>
<q>No,</q> he said, shaking his head.
<q>I'm afraid not. This is how Earth
must once have been. But no longer.</q>
</p>

<p>
The other nodded. <q>Our total population
is but a few million,</q> he said.
Then, <q>I would like to see the mother
planet, but I suppose I never shall.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said diplomatically, <q>I have
seen little of Kropotkin thus far but
I am not so sure but that I might not
be happy to stay here, rather than
ever return to Earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old man knocked the ashes
from his pipe by striking it against
the heel of a work-gnarled hand.
He looked about him thoughtfully
and said, <q>Yes, perhaps you're right.
I am an old man and life has been
good. I suppose I should be glad that
I'll unlikely live to see Kropotkin
change.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Change? You plan changes?</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The old man looked at him and
there seemed to be a very faint bitterness,
politely suppressed. <q>I wouldn't
say <emph>we</emph> planned them, comrade. Certainly
not we of the older generation.
But the trend toward change is already
to be seen by anyone who
wishes to look, and our institutions
won't long be able to stand. But, of
course, if you're from United Planets
you would know more of this than I.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I'm sorry. I don't know what you're
talking about.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are new indeed on Kropotkin,</q>
the old man said. <q>Just a moment.</q>
He went into his house and
emerged with a small power pack. He
indicated it to Ronny Bronston.
<q>This is our destruction,</q> he said.
</p>

<p>
The Section G agent shook his
head, bewildered.
</p>

<p>
The old-timer sat down again.
<q>My son,</q> he said, <q>runs the farm
now. Six months ago, he traded one
of our colts for a small pump, powered
by one of these. It was little use
on my part to argue against the step.
The pump eliminates considerable
work at the well and in irrigation.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny still didn't understand.
</p>

<p>
<q>The power pack is dead now,</q> the
old man said, <q>and my son needs a
new one.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They're extremely cheap,</q> Ronny
said. <q>An industrialized planet turns
them out in multi-million amounts at
practically no cost.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We have little with which to
trade. A few handicrafts, at most.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>But, good heavens,
man, build yourselves a plant to
manufacture power packs. With a
population this small, a factory employing
no more than half a dozen
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
men could turn out all you need.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old man was shaking his head.
He held up the battery. <q>This comes
from the planet Archimedes,</q> he said,
<q>one of the most highly industrialized
in the UP, so I understand. On Archimedes
do you know how many persons
it takes to manufacture this
power pack?</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p46.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<q>A handful to operate the whole
factory, Archimedes is fully automated.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old man was still moving his
head negatively. <q>No. It takes the total
working population of the planet.
How many different metals do you
think are contained in it, in all? I
can immediately see what must be
lead and copper.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said uncomfortably, <q>Probably
at least a dozen, some in microscopic
amounts.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right. So we need a highly
developed metallurgical industry before
we can even begin. Then a developed
transportation industry to
take metals to the factory. We need
power to run the factory, hydro-electric,
solar, or possibly atomic power.
We need a tool-making industry
to equip the factory, the transport
industry and the power industry. And
while the men are employed in these,
we need farmers to produce food for
them, educators to teach them the
sciences and techniques involved, and
an entertainment industry to amuse
them in their hours of rest. As their
lives become more complicated with
all this, we need a developed medical
industry to keep them in health.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old man hesitated for a moment,
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
then said, <q>And, above all, we
need a highly complicated government
to keep all this accumulation of
wealth in check and balance. No.
You see, my friend, it takes <emph>social
labor</emph> to produce products such as
this, and thus far we have avoided
that on Kropotkin. In fact, it was for
such avoidance that my ancestors
originally came to this planet.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, scowling, <q>This gets
ridiculous. You show me this basically
simple power pack and say it will
ruin your socio-economic system. On
the face of it, it's ridiculous.</q>
</p>

<p>
The old man sighed and looked
out over the village unseeingly. <q>It's
not just that single item, of course.
The other day one of my neighbors
turned up with a light bulb with
built-in power for a year's time. It is
the envy of the unthinking persons
of the neighborhood most of whom
would give a great deal for such a
source of light. A nephew of mine
has somehow even acquired a powered
bicycle, I think you call them,
from somewhere or other. One by
one, item by item, these products of
advanced technology turn up&mdash;from
whence, we don't seem to be able to
find out.</q>
</p>

<p>
Under his breath, Ronny muttered,
<q><hi rend='italic'>Paine!</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I beg your pardon,</q> the old man
said.
</p>

<p>
<q>Nothing,</q> the Section G agent
said. He leaned forward and, a worried
frown working its way over his
face, began to question the other
more closely.
</p>

<p>
Afterwards, Ronny Bronston strode
slowly toward the UP headquarters.
There was only a small contingent of
United Planets personnel on this little
populated member planet but, as
always, there seemed to be an office
for Section G.
</p>

<p>
Ronny stood outside it for a moment.
There were voices from within,
but he didn't knock.
</p>

<p>
In fact, he cast his eyes up and
down the short corridor. At the far
end was a desk with a girl in the
Interplanetary Cultural Exchange Department
working away in concentration.
She wasn't looking in his direction.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston put his ear to the
door. The building was primitive
enough, rustic enough in its construction,
to permit his hearing.
</p>

<p>
Tog Lee Chang Chu was saying
seriously, <q>Oh, it was chaotic all right,
but no, I don't really believe it could
have been a Tommy Paine case. Actually
I'd suggest to you that you run
over to Catalina. When I was on Avalon
I heard rumors that Tommy
Paine's finger seemed to be stirring
around in the mess there. Yes, I'd
recommend that you take off for Catalina
immediately. If Paine is anywhere
in this vicinity at all, it would
be Catalina.</q>
</p>

<p>
For a moment, Ronny Bronston
froze. Then in automatic reflex his
hand went inside his jacket to rest
over the butt of the Model H automatic
there.
</p>

<p>
No, that wasn't the answer. His
hand dropped away from the gun.
</p>

<p>
He listened, further.
</p>

<p>
Another voice was saying, <q>We
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
thought we were on the trail for a
while on Hector, but it turned out it
wasn't Paine. Just a group of local
agitators fed up with the communist
regime there. There's going to be a
blood bath on Hector, before they're
through, but it doesn't seem to be
Paine's work this time.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog's voice was musing. <q>Well, you
never know, it sounds like the sort of
muck he likes to play in.</q>
</p>

<p>
The strange voice said argumentatively,
<q>Well, Hector <emph>needs</emph> a few
fundamental changes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It could be,</q> Tog said, <q>but that's
their internal affairs, of course. Our
job in Section G is to prevent troubles
between the differing socio-economic
and religious features of member
planets. Whatever we think of
some of the things Paine does, our
task is to get him.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Ronny Bronston pushed the door
open and went through. Tog Lee
Chang Chu was sitting at a desk,
nonchalant and petitely beautiful as
usual, comfortably seated in easy-chairs
were two young men by their
attire probably citizens of United
Planets and possibly even Earthlings.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hello, Ronny,</q> Tog said softly.
<q>Meet Frederic Lippman and Pedro
Nazaré, both Section G operatives.
This is my colleague, Ronald Bronston,
gentlemen. Fredric and Pedro
were just leaving, Ronny.</q>
</p>

<p>
The two agents got up to shake
hands.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>You can't be in that
much of a hurry. What's your assignment,
boys?</q>
</p>

<p>
Lippman, an earnest type, and by
his appearance not more than twenty-five
or so years of age, began to answer,
but Nazaré said hurriedly, <q>Actually,
it's a confidential assignment.
We're working directly out of the
Octagon.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lippman said, frowning, <q>It's not
that confidential, Tog. Bronston's an
agent, too. What's your assignment,
Ronny?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny said very slowly, <q>I'm beginning
to suspect that it's the same
as yours and various pieces are beginning
to fall into place.</q>
</p>

<p>
Lippman was taken aback. <q>You
mean you're looking for Tommy
Paine?</q> His eyes went to his associate.
<q>How could that be, Tog? I didn't
know more than one of us were on
this job. Why, that means if Bronston
here finds him first, I won't get my
permanent appointment.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny looked at Tog Lee Chang
Chu who was sitting demurely, hands
in lap, and a resigned expression on
her face. He said, <q>Nor if you find
him first, will I. Look here, Tog, how
many men does Sid Jakes have out on
this assignment?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I wouldn't know,</q> she said mildly.
</p>

<p>
He snapped, <q>A few dozen or so?
Or possibly a few hundred?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It seems unlikely there could be
that many,</q> she said mildly. She
looked at the other two agents. <q>I
think you two had better run along.
Take my suggestion I made earlier.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Wait a minute,</q> Ronny snapped.
<q>You mean that they go to Catalina?
That's ridiculous.</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog Lee Chang Chu looked at
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
Pedro Nazaré and he turned and
started for the door followed by Fredric
Lippman who was still scowling
his puzzlement.
</p>

<p>
<q>Wait a minute!</q> Ronny snapped.
<q>I tell you it's ridiculous. And why
follow her suggestions? She's just my
assistant.</q>
</p>

<p>
Pedro Nazaré said, <q>Come on, Fred,
let's get going, we'll have to pack.</q>
But Lippman wasn't having any.
</p>

<p>
<q>His assistant?</q> he said to Tog Lee
Chang Chu.
</p>

<p>
Tog Lee Chang Chu's face changed
expression in sudden decision. She
opened her bag and brought forth a
Section G identification wallet and
flicked it open. The badge was gold.
<q>I suggest you hurry,</q> she said to the
two agents.
</p>

<p>
They left, and Tog turned back to
Ronny, her eyebrows raised questioningly.
</p>

<p>
Ronny sank down into one of the
chairs recently occupied by the other
two agents and tried to unravel
thoughts. He said finally, <q>I suppose
my question should be, why do Ross
Metaxa and Sid Jakes send an agent
of supervisor rank to act as assistant
to a probationary agent? But that's
not what I'm asking yet. First, Lippman
just called his buddy Tog. How
come?</q>
</p>

<p>
Tog took her seat again, rueful
resignation on her face. <q>You should
be figuring it out on your own by
this time, Ronny.</q>
</p>

<p>
He looked at her belligerently.
<q>I'm too stupid, eh?</q> The anger was
growing within him.
</p>

<p>
<q>Tog,</q> she said. <q>It's a nickname,
or possibly you might call it a title.
Tog. T-O-G. The Other Guy. My
name is Lee Chang Chu, and I'm of
supervisor grade presently working
at developing new Section G operatives.
Considering the continuing
rapid growth of UP, and the continuing
crises that come up in UP activities,
developing new operatives is one
of the department's most pressing
jobs. Each new agent, on his first assignment,
is always paired with an
experienced old-timer.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I see,</q> he said flatly. <q>Your principal
job being to needle the fledging,
eh?</q>
</p>

<p>
She lowered her eyes. <q>I wouldn't
exactly word it that way,</q> she said.
She was obviously unrepentant.
</p>

<p>
He said, <q>You must get a lot of
laughs out of it. If I say, it seems to
me democracy is a good thing, you
give me an argument about the superiority
of rule by an elite. If I say
anarchism is ridiculous, you dredge
up an opinion that it's man's highest
ethic. You must laugh yourself to
sleep at nights. You and Metaxa and
Jakes and every other agent in Section
G. Everybody is in on the Tog gag
but the sucker.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sometimes there are amusing elements
to the work,</q> Lee Chang conceded,
demurely.
</p>

<p>
<q>Just one more thing I'd like to
ask,</q> Ronny rapped. <q>This first assignment,
agents are given. Is it always
to look for Tommy Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
She looked up at him, said nothing,
but her eyes were questioning.
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't worry,</q> he snapped. <q>I've
already found out who Paine is.</q>
</p>

<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>

<p>
<q>Ah?</q> She was suddenly interested.
<q>Then I'm glad I ordered that
other probationary agent to leave.
Evidently, he hasn't. Obviously, I didn't
want the two of you comparing notes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, that would never do,</q> he said
bitterly. <q>Well, this is the end of the
assignment so far as you and I are
concerned. I'm heading back for
Earth.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course,</q> she said.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
He had time on the way to think
it all over, and over and over again,
and a great deal of it simply didn't
make sense. He had enough information
to be disillusioned, sick at heart.
To have crumbled an idealistic edifice
that had taken a lifetime to build.
A lifetime? At least three. His father
and his grandfather before him
had had the dream. He'd been weaned
on the idealistic purposes of the United
Planets and man's fated growth
into the stars.
</p>

<p>
He was a third-generation dreamer
of participating in the glory. His
grandfather had been a citizen of
Earth and gave up a commercial position
to take a job that amounted to
little more than a janitor in an obscure
department of Interplanetary
Financial Clearing. He wanted to get
into the big job, into space, but never
made it. Ronny's father managed to
work up to the point where he was a
supervisor in Interplanetary Medical
Exchange, in the tabulating department.
He, too, had wanted into space,
and never made it. Ronny had loved
them both. In a way fulfilling his own
dreams had been a debt he owed
them, because at the same time he
was fulfilling theirs.
</p>

<p>
And now this. All that had been
gold, was suddenly gilted lead. The
dream had become contemptuous
nightmare.
</p>

<p>
Finally back in Greater Washington,
he went immediately from the
shuttleport to the Octagon. His Bureau
of Investigation badge was
enough to see him through the guide-guards
and all the way through to the
office of Irene Kasansky.
</p>

<p>
She looked up at him quickly.
<q>Hi,</q> she said. <q>Ronny Bronston, isn't
it?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That's right. I want to see Commissioner
Metaxa.</q>
</p>

<p>
She scowled. <q>I can't work you in
now. How about Sid Jakes?</q>
</p>

<p>
He said, <q>Jakes is in charge of the
Tommy Paine routine, isn't he?</q>
</p>

<p>
She shot a sharper look up at him.
<q>That's right,</q> she said warily.
</p>

<p>
<q>All right,</q> Ronny said. <q>I'll see
Jakes.</q>
</p>

<p>
Her deft right hand slipped open
a drawer in her desk. <q>You'd better
leave your gun here,</q> she said. <q>I've
known probationary agents to get excited,
in my time.</q>
</p>

<p>
He looked at her.
</p>

<p>
And she looked back, her gaze
level.
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston shrugged, slipped
the Model H from under his armpit
and tossed it into the drawer.
</p>

<p>
Irene Kasansky went back to her
work. <q>You know the way,</q> she said.
</p>

<p>
This time Ronny Bronston pushed
open the door to Sid Jakes' office without
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
knocking. The Section G supervisor
was poring over reports on his
desk. He looked up and grinned his
Sid Jakes' grin.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ronny!</q> he said. <q>Welcome back.
You know, you're one of the quickest
men ever to return from a Tommy
Paine assignment. I was talking to
Lee Chang only a day or so ago. She
said you were on your way.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny grunted, his anger growing
within him. He lowered himself into
one of the room's heavy chairs, and
glared at the other.
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes chuckled and leaned back
in his chair. <q>Before we go any further,
just to check, who is Tommy
Paine?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny snapped, <q>You are.</q>
</p>

<p>
The supervisor's eyebrows went up.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said, <q>You and Ross Metaxa
and Lee Chang Chu&mdash;and all the rest
of Section G. Section G is Tommy
Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Good man!</q> Sid Jakes chortled.
He flicked a switch on his order box.
<q>Irene,</q> he said, <q>how about clearing
me through to the commissioner? I
want to take Ronny in for his finals.</q>
</p>

<p>
Irene snapped back something and
Sid Jakes switched off and turned to
Ronny happily. <q>Let's go,</q> he said.
<q>Ross is free for a time.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston said nothing. He
followed the other. The rage within
him was still mounting.
</p>

<p>
In the months that had elapsed
since Ronny Bronston had seen Ross
Metaxa the latter had changed not at
all. His clothing was still sloppy, his
eyes bleary with lack of sleep or
abundance of alcohol&mdash;or both. His
expression was still sour and skeptical.
</p>

<p>
He looked up at their entry and
scowled, and made no effort to rise
and shake hands. He said to Ronny
sourly, <q>O.K., sound off and get it
over with. I haven't too much time
this afternoon.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston was just beginning
to feel tentacles of cold doubt,
but he suppressed them. The boiling
anger was uppermost. He said flatly,
<q>All my life I've been a dedicated
United Planets man. All my life I've
considered its efforts the most praiseworthy
and greatest endeavor man
has ever attempted.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course, old chap,</q> Jakes told
him cheerfully. <q>We know all that, or
you wouldn't ever have been chosen
as an agent for Section G.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny looked at him in disgust.
<q>I've resigned that position, Jakes.</q>
</p>

<p>
Jakes grinned back at him. <q>To the
contrary, you're now in the process
of receiving permanent appointment.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny snorted his disgust and
turned back to Metaxa. <q>Section G is
a secret department of the Bureau of
Investigation devoted to subverting
Article One of the United Planets
Charter.</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa nodded.
</p>

<p>
<q>You don't deny it?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa shook his head.
</p>

<p>
<q>Article One,</q> Ronny snapped, <q>is
the basic foundation of the Charter
which every member of UP and particularly
every citizen of United Planets,
such as ourselves, has sworn to
uphold. But the very reason for the
existence of this Section G is to interfere
with the internal affairs of
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
member planets, to subvert their governments,
their economic systems,
their religions, their ideals, their very
way of life.</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa yawned and reached into a
desk drawer for his bottle. <q>That's
right,</q> he said. <q>Anybody like a
drink?</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny ignored him. <q>I'm surprised
I didn't catch on even sooner,</q> he
said. <q>On New Delos Mouley Hassan,
the local agent, knew the God-King
was going to be assassinated. He
brought in extra agents and even a detail
of Space Forces guards for the
emergency. He probably engineered
the assassination himself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nope,</q> Jakes said. <q>We seldom go
<emph>that</emph> far. Local rebels did the actual
work, but, admittedly, we knew what
they were planning. In fact, I've got
a sneaking suspicion that Mouley
Hassan provided them with the bomb.
That lad's a bit too dedicated.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But <emph>why</emph>,</q> Ronny blurted. <q>That's
deliberately interfering with internal
affairs. If the word got out, every
planet in UP would resign.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Probably no planet in the system
that needed a change so badly,</q> Metaxa
growled. <q>If they were ever going
to swing into real progress, that
hierarchy of priests had to go.</q> He
snorted. <q>An immortal God-King,
yet.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny pressed on. <q>That was bad
enough, but how about this planet
Mother, where the colonists had attempted
to return to nature and live
in the manner man did in earliest
times.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Most backward planet in the UP,</q>
Metaxa said sourly. <q>They just had to
be roused.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And Kropotkin!</q> Ronny blurted.
<q>Don't you understand, those people
were <emph>happy</emph> there. Their lives were
simple, uncomplicated, and they had
achieved a happiness that&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa came to his feet. He
scowled at Ronny Bronston and
growled, <q>Unfortunately, the human
race can't take the time out for happiness.
Come along, I want to show
you something.</q>
</p>

<p>
He swung around the corner of his
desk and made his way toward a
ceiling-high bookcase.
</p>

<p>
Ronny stared after him, taken off
guard, but Sid Jakes was grinning his
amusement.
</p>

<p>
Ross Metaxa pushed a concealed
button and the bookcase slid away to
one side to reveal an elevator beyond.
</p>

<p>
<q>Come along,</q> Metaxa repeated
over his shoulder. He entered the
elevator, followed by Jakes.
</p>

<p>
There was nothing else to do.
Ronny Bronston followed them, his
face still flushed with the angered
argument.
</p>

<p>
The elevator dropped, how far,
Ronny had no idea. It stopped and
they emerged into a plain, sparsely
furnished vault. Against one wall
was a boxlike affair that reminded
Ronny of nothing so much as a deep-freeze.
</p>

<p>
For all practical purposes, that's
what it was. Ross Metaxa led him
over and they stared down into its
glass-covered interior.
</p>

<p>
Ronny's eyes bugged. The box contained
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
the partly charred body of an
animal approximately the size of a
rabbit. No, not an animal. It had obviously
once been clothed, and its
limbs were obviously those of a tool
using life form.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa and Jakes were staring
down at it solemnly, for once no inane
grin on the supervisor's face.
And that of Ross Metaxa was more
weary than ever.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said finally, <q>What is it?</q>
But he knew.
</p>

<p>
<q>You tell us,</q> Metaxa growled
sourly.
</p>

<p>
<q>It's an intelligent life form,</q>
Ronny blurted. <q>Why has it been
kept secret?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Let's go on back upstairs,</q> Metaxa
sighed.
</p>

<p>
Back in his office he said, <q>Now I
go into my speech. Shut up for a
while.</q> He poured himself a drink,
not offering one to the other two.
<q>Ronny,</q> he said, <q>man isn't alone
in the galaxy. There's other intelligent
life. Dangerously intelligent.</q>
</p>

<p>
In spite of himself Ronny reacted
in amusement. <q>That little creature
down there? The size of a small
monkey?</q> As soon as he said it, he
realized the ridiculousness of his
statement.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa grunted. <q>Obviously, size
means nothing. That little fellow
down there was picked up by one of
our Space Forces scouts over a century
ago. How long he'd been drifting
through space, we don't know.
Possibly only months, but possibly
hundreds of centuries. But however
long he's proof that man is not alone
in the galaxy. And we have no way
of knowing when the expanding human
race will come up against this
other intelligence&mdash;and whoever it
was fighting.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p57.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<q>But,</q> Ronny protested, <q>you're
assuming they're aggressive. Perhaps
coming in contact with these aliens
will be the best thing that ever happened
to man. Possibly that little
fellow down there is the most benevolent
creature ever evolved.</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa looked at him strangely.
<q>Let's hope so,</q> he said. <q>However,
when found he was in what must
have been a one-man scout. He was
dead and his craft was blasted and
torn&mdash;obviously from some sort of
weapons' fire. His scout was obviously
a military craft, highly equipped with
what could only be weapons, most of
them so damaged our engineers haven't
been able to figure them out. To
the extent they have been able to reconstruct
them, they're scared silly.
No, there's no two ways about it, our
little rabbit sized intelligence down
in the vault was killed in an interplanetary
conflict. And sooner or
later, Ronny, man in his explosion
into the stars is going to run into
either or both of the opponents in
that conflict.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston slumped back into
his chair, his brain running out a
dozen leads at once.
</p>

<p>
Metaxa and Jakes remained quiet,
looking at him speculatively.
</p>

<p>
Ronny said slowly, <q>Then the purpose
of Section G is to push the
member planets of UP along the
fastest path of progress, to get them
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
ready for the eventual, inevitable
meeting.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not just Section G,</q> Metaxa
growled, <q>but all of the United Planets
organization, although most of
the rank and file don't even know our
basic purpose. Section G? We do the
dirty work, and are proud to do it, by
every method we can devise.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny leaned forward. <q>But look,</q>
he said. <q>Why not simply inform all
member planets of this common danger?
They'd all unite in the effort to
meet the common potential foe.
Anything standing in the way would
be brushed aside.</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa shook his head wearily.
<q>Would they? Is a common danger
enough for man to change his institutions,
particularly those pertaining
to property, power and religion? History
doesn't show it. Delve back into
early times and you'll recall, for an
example, that in man's early discovery
of nuclear weapons he almost destroyed
himself. Three or four different
socio-economic systems co-existed
at that time and all would have
preferred destruction rather than
changes in their social forms.</q>
</p>

<p>
Jakes said, in an unwonted quiet
tone, <q>No, until someone comes up
with a better answer it looks as
though Section G is going to have to
continue the job of advancing man's
institutions, in spite of himself.</q>
</p>

<p>
The commissioner made it clearer.
<q>It's not as though we deal with all
our member planets. It isn't necessary.
But you see, Ronny, the best
colonists are usually made up of the,
well, crackpot element. Those who
are satisfied, stay at home. America,
for instance, was settled by the adventurers,
the malcontents, the non-conformists,
the religious cultists,
and even fugitives and criminals of
Europe. So it is in the stars. A group
of colonists go out with their dreams,
their schemes, their far-out ideas. In a
few centuries they've populated their
new planet, and often do very well
indeed. But often not and a nudge, a
push, from Section G can start them
up another rung or so of the ladder of
social evolution. Most of them don't
want the push. Few cultures, if any,
realize they are mortal; like Hitler's
Reich, they expect to last at least a
thousand years. They resist any
change&mdash;even change for the better.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Ronny's defenses were crumbling,
but he threw one last punch. <q>How
do you know the changes you make
are for the better?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa shrugged heavy shoulders.
<q>It's sometimes difficult to decide, but
we aim for changes that will mean an
increased scientific progress, a more
advanced industrial technology, more
and better education, the opening of
opportunity for every member of
the culture to exert himself to the
full of his abilities. The last is particularly
important. Too many cultures,
even those that think of themselves
as particularly advanced, suppress
the individual by one means or
another.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny was still mentally reeling
with the magnitude of it all. <q>But how
can you account for the fact that
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
these alien intelligences haven't already
come in contact with us?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa shrugged again. <q>The Solar
System, our sun, is way out in a
sparsely populated spiral arm of our
galaxy. Undoubtedly, these others
are further in toward the center. We
have no way of knowing how far
away they are, or how many sun
systems they dominate, or even how
many other empires of intelligent life
forms there are. All we know is that
there are other intelligences in the
galaxy, that they are near enough
like us to live on the same type planets.
The more opportunity man has
to develop before the initial contact
takes place, the stronger bargaining
position, or military position, as the
case may be, he'll be in.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sid Jakes summed up the Tommy
Paine business for Ronny's sake. <q rend='pre'>We
need capable agents badly, but we
need dedicated and efficient ones. We
can't afford anything less. So when
we come upon potential Section G
operatives we send them out with a
trusted Tog to get a picture of these
United Planets of ours. It's the
quickest method of indoctrination
we've hit upon; the agent literally
teaches himself by observation and
participation. Usually, it takes four or
five stops, on this planet and that, before
the probationary agent begins
sympathizing with the efforts of this
elusive Tommy Paine. Especially
since every Section G agent he runs
into, including the Tog, of course,
fills him full of stories of Tommy
Paine's activities.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You were one of the quickest to
stumble on the true nature of our
Section G. After calling at only three
planets you saw that we ourselves
are Tommy Paine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But ... but what's the end?</q>
Ronny said plaintively. <q>You say our
job is advancing man, even in spite
of himself when it comes to that.
We start at the bottom of the evolutionary
ladder in a condition of savagery,
clan communism in government,
simple animism in religion, and
slowly we progress through barbarism
to civilization, through paganism to
the higher ethical codes, through
chattel slavery and then feudalism
and beyond. What is the final end,
the Ultima Thule?</q>
</p>

<p>
Metaxa was shaking his head
again. He poured himself another
drink, offered the bottle this time to
the others. <q>We don't know,</q> he said
wearily, <q>perhaps there is none. Perhaps
there is always another rung on
this evolutionary ladder.</q> He punched
at his order box and said, <q>Irene,
have them do up a silver badge for
Ronny.</q>
</p>

<p>
Ronny Bronston took a deep
breath and reached for the brown
bottle. <q>Well,</q> he said. <q>I suppose
I'm ready to ask for my first assignment.</q>
He thought for a moment.
<q>By the way, if there's any way to
swing it, I wouldn't mind working
with Supervisor Lee Chang Chu.</q>
</p>

<p>
THE END
</p>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
